2 ContributorsPersona 2 Game Script - Part 5 Lyrics(ELLEN'S ROUTE)

(The Tenchu Soldiers fighting and Tatsuya arrives and kills the Tenchu
Soldiers with his sword, X2s appear and Maya and co. arrive just in
time.)

ELLEN: Mr. Kandori...!!

GUIDO: You're a little late...We just finished breaking the Seal.  This
is a seal that controls a dragon. There all 11 more of these throughout
the world..And they've all been released...

CHIZURU: Dragons, a huge energy flowing underground...Now, by releasing
the Kegare with the dragon, this world will be obliterated...Right now,
Gozen and Master Tatsuzou are headed towards Torifune...You've lost.

GUIDO: I'd like to tell you to chase them, but I'm just a peon. (boss
battle music starts) I can't just let you return. Please honor me by
being my opponents.

(Enter Battle)

CHIZURU: Master Guido...Allow me.

GUIDO: I understand...Well then, I'll ask the Paradox to be my opponent.
CHIZURU: I will get you for what happened last time.

ELLEN: Such sorrowful eyes...Alright...I understand...I will fight you
fair and square.

(After Battle)

(The place starts shaking)

GUIDO: Magnificent...But...it is not easy for one embraced by the shadow
to escape from its grasp...Can you break the chains of fate?

TATSUYA: That's why I came...I'll never let that sadness happen again...

GUIDO: Ha...Hurry, leave before it's too late...!  This place won't last
much longer...

NATE: Come with us...!

ELLEN: You must come with us...!

(Guido fires a shot at the party)

GUIDO: Don't humiliate me with your sympathy...

(Maya and co. leave and Nate/Ellen takes one last look at Guido and
Chizuru and heads off.)
(Chizuru holds onto Guido's shoulder)

CHIZURU: You wanted to hear the words...from the boy?

GUIDO: I regret leading you to this end...

CHIZURU: No...I was happy just to be with you...

(The Undersea Ruins start to crumble)


UNDERSEA RUINS ENTRANCE

ULALA: I swear! This is so not cool!!!

BAOFU: Where is Suou and that kid!?

KATSUYA:What are you doing!?...The water is rising! Hurry and come with
us!!

TATSUYA: Ugh...!

(FMV plays of the Undersea Ruins collapsing and Maya and co. manage to
make it to land with the submarine)

YACHT HARBOR

KATSUYA: ...Wait, Tatsuya!!

KATSUYA: What exactly are you hiding...Can't you tell us by now...?

TATSUYA: Please...don't get involved with me...

BAOFU: Hey..Do you know that your brother is saving money from his
paycheck for you?

KATSUYA: Hey..How do you know that!?

ULALA: He had Nate research you.  He really hates to loose...

BAOFU: Amano went through a lot, just to see you.. She was even marked
for death by a Joker because of that idiot there (referring to Ulala).

ULALA: ........

BAOFU: Haven't you done enough all by yourself...?

TATSUYA (to Katsuya): I'm not...your little brother..

KATSUYA: What the hell do you mean!?...You are my brother!! No matter
what!!

ULALA: Easy there, big guy...

TATSUYA: If I talk...will you back off...?

BAOFU: Depends on what you say...right, Amano...

MAYA: ... ... ...

TATSUYA: Come with me to the Araya Shrine...

(The group leaves and heads for the Araya Shrine, but before that here
are some dialouge referrences to Innocent Sin.)

KONAN PD:

NATE: Come to think of it, was there not a fire here in the past?  What
is this...this feeling of wrongness?

ELLEN: Ummm...Has this police station been in a fire before? I don't
know why...I just feel it has...

ULALA: Hey Ma-ya, has Tatsuya ever been "Wanted"? Sorry.. Something's
wrong with me...

TATSUYA: I see...Since Tatsuya Sudou isn't here, this place is
alright...

LUNAR PALACE:

ULALA: Hey, Ma-ya, have you ever let Tatsuya in your room before now?
You haven't right?  How is he so familliar with your room...?

NATE: The young lad is speechless..Was this room just too much for him?

ELLEN: Tatsuya...He is at a loss for words. Was this room just too much
for him?

KATSUYA: What's wrong with Tatsuya?  He hasn't been saying anything.
Does he feel alright?

TATSUYA: It's the same in this world...



SUMARU GENIE:

TATSUYA: That fortune teller...She was a rumormonger on the Other
Side...So she's not on This Side.

SUMARU GENIE: Hmm...? That red-clothed young man...He appeared in a
dream I had earlier...I feel..this is a meeting of fate.


KONAN SATOMI TADASHI:

TATSUYA: Health foods...Speaking of which, I wonder if Yuki is still
worrying about it...?


BIKINI LINE:

AKI DUDE: Hey, can I ask you something?...You and that guy in red, do
you know each other? I feel like I've met him before...


HIIRAGI THERAPY:

KATSUYA: Did you tell Miss Sonomura about the Undersea Ruins?...If you
haven't, do so please.

NATE: Miss Amano, could you report about Guido to Mary...

ELLEN: I have to tell Mary about the incident at the Undersea Ruins...

MARY: Guido was at the Undersea Ruins? So what happened? Did Guido....

(Maya explains everything)

MARY: I see...I..can't think he was a bad person...That's why I wanted
to talk to him again.  Thank you..for telling me.

REIKO: That boy in red..It should be his first time here...But why do I
recognize him?...


TONY'S SHOP:

TONY: You in the red clothes, you are cool, you are chillin'!  But you
look kind of pale, what's wrong?


PEACE DINER:

ULALA: Mmm?...Tatsuya knows that kid?  Maybe he's kind of well-known.

TATSUYA: I see..Chikalin is a rumormonger even on This Side...

CHIKALIN: Umm..Is the person in red clothes someone I know...I feel like
we've met...

NATE: I heard from Sergeant Suou that he was Ms. Smith's student...Such
a coincidence...

ELLEN: I heard from Katsuya that his teacher was Ms. Smith...What a
coincidence.


MU CONTINENT:

TATSUYA: It's not a casino on "This Side"...Well, it's better that way.


SUMARU PRISON:

NATE: Suou is feeling extreme longing for this place. What happened here
before?

ELLEN: For that "cool boy", this place seems to bring back memories for
him...I wonder if something happened here in the past?

TATSUYA: ...Th, this is!? Ahh, it's been a while.


KUZUNOHA:

TATSUYA: This place...It's really changed...

KATSUYA: Impossible...A normal high school student shouldn't have any
business here!


GATTEN SUSHI:

KATSUYA: Tatsuya was really surprised when he saw this Gatten Sushi...I
wonder why?

TATSUYA: Why is the Gatten Shop here in Rengedai...wasn't it in
Hirasaka...?

NATE: So...Chris has left.  I wanted to tell him about Guido myself,
but...I am sure we shall meet him again.

ELLEN:...It seems Chris has left. I wonder if I'll ever meet him
again...

KANKICHI: Huh...That boy in red...I think I've seen him before...is it
just my imagination?


RENGEDAI SATOMI TADASHI

ELLEN: Strangely, Tatsuya seems familliar. Could I have met him
before...?

VELVET ROOM:

TATSUYA: Igor and them should know...About the "Other Side", and...about
me...

DEMON ARTIST: Oh...so you were able to meet him.  But you haven't
remembered everything.  I think he wants to keep it that way.


ARAYA SHRINE:

KATSUYA: What's so special about this place...?

TATSUYA: .........

(Maya falls to the ground)

MAYA: ........!?

ULALA: Ma-ya, what's wrong?!


(Maya has another flashback. Araya Shrine is on fire and there is a girl
(young Maya) trapped inside and Tatsuya is lying on the ground and a
familliar young man is standing over him laughing.)

FLASHBACK: ARAYA SHRINE---10 YEARS AGO ON THE OTHER SIDE

SCHOOLGIRL: Tatsuya! Tatsuya!!

SCHOOLGIRL: Tatsuya, can you hear me!? Please...answer me! Tatsuya!

INSANE BOY: Hee..Hee...hya! Hya-----hahahahahahahahaha!!

SCHOOLGIRL: Tatsuya..run! RUN!!

(Tatsuya's persona is awakened and it attacks the Insane Boy a.k.a
Tatsuya Sudou.)


REALITY

MAYA: ......!

KATSUYA: Deja vu again..Ms. Amano?

TATSUYA: So...you have it too...The memory of the "Other Side"  is
inside Maya...

ULALA: Ma-ya, what did you see?

(Maya explains)

KATSUYA: That can't be...This shrine hasn't been set on fire. I used to
bring Tatsuya here when we were little.  No doubt about it.

(Tatsuya flicks the lighter)

TATSUYA: In this world, anyway...

BAOFU: Say what...?

TATSUYA: I'm going to Mt. Iwato...

(Tatsuya leaves and the party follows.  You can re-enter Araya and talk
to your memebers if you wish, also, Jun, Eikichi, and Lisa have now
mysteriously vanished from there.)

BAOFU: What's wrong? You look pale.  Deja vu again?

KATSUYA: Now Mt. Iwato of Araya...What is Tatsuya trying to do?

NATE: It appears that Suou's purpose is to make you realize...or
remember something, Ms. Amano. Do you have any ideas?  I am interested,
since I've gotten involved in this.

ELLEN: Perhaps Tatsuya wants you to remember something, Ms. Amano? It
appears to be that way...

ULALA: Did you hear what that old woman said?  Looks like something
happened here.

OLD WOMAN: W-What just happened...?  All of a sudden, there was a black
swirl that sucked in the kids who were here...

TATSUYA: If you go to Mt. Iwato of Araya...You will be able to know all
in exchange for the precious time of the present.


MT IWATO ENTRANCE

TATSUYA: This is where your unconscious memories lie...Come, if you
don't mind your past exposed...

(Tatsuya goes on ahead, if you wish, talk to your memebers)

NATE: Iwato...Araya Shrine...Those were from Lunervale, but this is my
first visit...

ELLEN: Mt. Iwato of Araya...like in Lunarvale...I've never been in it
though...

KATSUYA: Ms. Amano...are we trying to find out what we do not need to
know...? Is that the case...with Tatsuya...?

BAOFU: Showing people's pasts...You've gotta be kiddin' me...

ULALA: What should we do, Ma-ya?  I kinda have a feeling...It might be
better if we don't go...


FIRST SPRING OF MIRRORS

(NATE'S ROUTE)

FLASHBACK: ST. HERMELIN SCHOOL ENTRANCE

(This shows Mary, Nate, and Ellen and  the "Boy With the Earing" from
the Sumaru TV event when they were young (a.k.a thier improved
Revelations: Persona looks.)

ELLEN: Mary, aren't Brad and Mark here yet?

MARY: Yeah, they're still at Ms. Smith's.  Alana started crying and it's
all a mess.

NATE: Don't mind me.  Today's my last day...There just won't be enough
time.

ELLEN: This school holds so many memories...

MARY: But you're going away to England...That's so far away...

NATE: Yeah, we won't be able to meet. But the distance amidst us will
never change. Right?

BOY WITH EARING: ...Yeah.

(A limo arrives and Matsuoka comes out)

MATSUOKA: I've come to pick you up.

MARY: Hey, let's make a pact! If our dreams come true, we'll meet again!

NATE: Hmm...that's a splendid idea...

NATE: I'll one day be the No. 1 man in the world.  Promise me you'll
have a great dream too.

BOY WITH EARING: Yeah...I promise.

(Nate and Matsuoka leave in the limosuine and drive away)


(ELLEN'S ROUTE)

(FLASHBACK: ST. HERMELIN SCHOOL ENTRANCE

(This shows Mary, Ellen and  the "Boy With the Earing" from the Sumaru
TV event when they were young (a.k.a thier improved Revelations: Persona
looks. Mary waves and the limosuine drives away.)

MARY: Nate's gone...

BOY WITH EARING: Actually, I won't be able to see you guys for awhile...

MARY: Ehhhh!?

ELLEN: W, Why!?...

(Boy With Earring explains to Ellen.)

ELLEN: I see...

MARY: ...Y, You know! Did you know, Ellen made it throught the modeling
audition!? She's one step closer to her dream!! Isn't that great!?

MARY: Come on, Ellen...

(Ellen walks up to the Boy With Earring.)

ELLEN: U, Um...I'll do my best...So you do yours...Next...Next time we
meet...I'll be a woman you won't even recognize...

BOY WITH EARING: Then, it's a promise...

ELLEN: .........


REALITY

(NATE'S ROUTE)

NATE: That's right...we made that promise...

NATE: Until now, I don't think I truly understood what it meant to be
number one...The path that I will take will not be easy.  Even if I know
it in theory, my emotions... The time I've spent with you didn't
allow...And so, I may have subconsciously wanted to escape...from
myself, Nate Nanjo...

NATE: But, now it's different.  I will do what I think is right.  As
Nate Nanjo...

(ELLEN'S ROUTE)

ELLEN: The promise...we made it...

ELLEN: I-I had been hiding my true feelings...I really didn't want you
to go...I waited to be by your side...From that time on, I had forgotten
about my dream of becoming a woman who's true to herself...I was afraid
of rejection...The reason why I can't come close to my dream and my
smile is so cold...It's all because of my cowardly heart...

(Tatsuya flicks his lighter)

TATSUYA: This is the power of the spring...If you're going to turn
back...do it now...I won't stop you...

(Tatsuya goes on ahead.  Talk to your members.)

NATE: So I might've gone off track...Again, it is you who opened my
eyes...What a truly great man you
are...

ELLEN: I feel the clouds in my heart have parted...I will change...so
that I can keep my promise to him...

BAOFU: Promises huh...Stupid stuff I didn't need to see...

ULALA: Best freinds are really great...It's always better to have one
true freind than ten "fake" ones.

KATSUYA: Freindship that knows no boundries...It was good to have seen
it...


SECOND SPRING OF MIRRORS

FLASHBACK: PRINCIPAL HARDING'S OFFICE AT SEVEN SISTERS HIGH SCHOOL

(This shows Tatsuya in his Seventh uniform watching Eikichi and Lisa
argue.)

EIKICHI: What the hell!  What is up with this school! Why does this have
to happen to me!?

LISA: It's your fault for wearing Kasu High's emblem to Seven Sisters
High School!!

EIKICHI: What!? It's your fault since you called out the Joker!! Well
why don't YOU do something about it!!

LISA: That's it! Now I'm really pissed off! You can't blame me for what
happened!  I didn't think it was going to turn out like this! What! At
least I don't get off on pulling down people's pants, Mr. Pervert!!! You
frickin' Pants Leader...!!! Pants Leader! Pants Leader!

EIKICHI: You should talk, freak!  You're just a chinese-speaking
American in Japan! Ha! What the hell are you anyway!? Here let me give
you a nickname! From now on, I'm going to call you "Ginko"! Ginko!
Ginko! Ginko! Ginko!...

GINKO: No! No, no, no, no! Don't you dare call me that stupid nickname!

(The door opens and Maya and Yuki enter.)

TATSUYA'S VOICE: We used the Master Joker, who was said to make dreams
come true, and became targets of revenge by the Joker...While we were
looking for the Principal who was said to be connected to the
Joker...Maya appeared before us...We decided to go after Joker
together...


REALITY

KATSUYA: What are you talking about...?  Ms. Amano went to the school to
investigate the "Joker Curse Murders".  The Principal's murder was what
actually happened in his office...

TATSUYA: You still don't understand...?  What you saw was a glimpse of
the "Other Side"...It's a memory of a reality unlike this one...!

KATSUYA: A different...reality!?

TATSUYA: I'm from that reality...That's why I'm not the Tatsuya you
know...! I'm just using my body from This Side...Within is the me from
the Other Side...!!

(Tatsuya goes ahead, talk to your party.)

ULALA: What the heck is going on!? I just don't get it!!

BAOFU: Heh...you gotta be kidding me...

NATE: A different reality...Is he from a parrallel dimension!? But, I
doubt the boy is lying...

ELLEN: He's from a parallel world...!? Well I don't think he's lying...

KATSUYA: This is nonsense! This isn't the "Twilight Zone"!


TRISH'S FOUNTAIN

TATSUYA: There she is...The money-hungry fairy...Even on "This Side"
she's still the same...


THIRD SPRING OF MIRRORS

FLASHBACK: SKY MUSUEM BLIMP (Where you fought Tatsuya Sudou.)

(This shows Tatsuya, Maya, Yuki, Lisa, and Eikichi battling Tatsuya
Sudou. Tatsuya Sudou is wearing some sort of dark costume with a red
scarf around his neck. And his face is burned.)

TATSUYA SUDOU: Hya---hahahahaha! Damn...It huuuuuurts!! Look what you
did..to me...again!!

TATSUYA SUDOU: Bastards! You! All of you!! And my father who kept me
isolated!! I'm going to kill you all!! Kill you all!!

(Tatsuya Sudou gets ready to attack.)

TATSUYA'S VOICE: The Joker used to be the leader of the secret
organization, Masquerade...Tatsuya Sudou was a key member...They
collected people's hopes and dreams as energy...planning to fulfill the
Oracle of Maia, the fall of humanity...We found that out through
fighting key members of Masquerade...Sudou, Anna Yoshizaka and Ginji
Sasaki...


REALITY

BAOFU: So then what...? Are you saying that Amano's visions are all
memories of a different reality...?

KATSUYA: Are you saying that Ms. Amano and Tatsuya Sudou came from the
same reality as you!?

TATSUYA: That's not entirely true...Sudou was truly a person of "This
Side"...He was told by "him" of the existence of the "Other Side" and
was only being used...

ULALA: So what do you mean!? It's not like Ma-ya came from that world
either, right?  Why does Ma-ya only have the memory of this "Other
Side"? None of us have it!

TATSUYA: There are many reasons...I don't think you should know any
more...

KATSUYA: Idiot...! As if we can back out after all this!

TATSUYA: If you continue, something bad may happen!

*MAYA: Tatsuya...I have a right to know.*

TATSUYA: Fine...A picture is worth a thousand words...

(Tatsuya goes on ahead. Talk to your members.)

KATSUYA: "Him"? Who could he be talking about...?

NATE: So you're saying it's the same as Mary...I want to think it's not
possible...

ELLEN: It's the same as Mary? That can't be...

ULALA: Okay, so Ma-ya is still Ma-ya, right!?  We've known each other
since high school!

BAOFU: The Joker was in another world as well...What exactly happened on
the "Other Side"...


FOURTH SPRING OF MIRROS

FLASHBACK: CARACOL: THE WHEEL OF TIME ROOM

(This shows Tatsuya, Maya, Lisa, and Eikichi by Jun's side, who is lying
on the floor.)

JUN: I...Have I...been having a nightmare...?

GINKO: Thank goodness...He's alright...

EIKICHI: Dammit...Making us worry...

(Tatsuya flicks the lighter)

JUN: Tatsuya...You kept it all this time...?

TATSUYA: Of course...

JUN (with his watch): It's moving...It was supposed to have
stopped...Ever since that day...Ahhh...even though I promised...we will
always protect Maya together...I..I..!

(Maya hands Jun a flower.)

MAYA: .......

JUN: A Nemofila flower...I'm sorry...Maya...I'm sorry...Tatsuya...

JUN: I...I...uwaaaaaaaaaaaa!!

(It will show all of thier portraits in Persona version)

TATSUYA: What...!? The personas are being frightened by something...!?

(A man appears next to a dead Junko Kurosu and this man looks like Mr.
Kashihara from Seven Sisters High School.)

???: How pathetic...The so-called "leader" of the Masquerade accepts
pity of his enimies?

TATSUYA'S VOICE: The Joker...was my former best freind, Jun, who was
being manipulated by false memories..No..it wasn't only
Jun...Eikichi...Lisa...Maya...and me...All of us...we were all freinds
"playing Masquerade"...Seperated by Sudou's arson 10 years ago...Maya
taught us the importance of dreams. Forever, the five of us all
together...we all believed that...But Maya had to leave town for family
reasons...We couldn't bear that, so we locked Maya in the shrine...And
then Sudou set it aflame...We thought Maya had died, so we were
scared...And each of us suppressed the memory...Jun remembered that and
became a Joker. Controlled by "him", he tried to end the world in
exchange for the ideal evolution.


REALITY

ULALA: His story...It's just like what we're going through, don't you
think...?

KATSUYA: Who is that "him" that controlled Jun...?

TATSUYA: His appearence was that of Jun's father, but inside was
completely different... Crawling Chaos...Nyarlathotep...He is the being
that stands opposite to Philemon...The shadow that lurks deep within
man's heart, toying with destiny...

TATUSYA: He wants to bring the same chaos to This Side as the Other
Side. The New World Order is just one of his pawns.

BAOFU: Hey, what do you mean...causing the same thing to happen?

TATSUYA:......You'll find out.

(He goes on ahead. Talk to your members.)

ULALA: There's a boss behind the New World Order...?  And that guy's in
each and everyone of us!?

BAOFU: The ideal-collecting Masquerade, and the Kegare-collecting New
World Order, huh...Serizawa's right, the situations are similar...

KATSUYA: The being that stands opposite to Philemon...? The archetype of
existential destruction...? If such a thing does exist, it is well
beyond our comprehension...The shadow of mankind...

NATE: Nyarlathotep...!? It wasn't merely Guido's Persona?

ELLEN: Nyarlathotep...Crawling Chaos...The Faceless God...He is not just
a Persona?


FINAL SPRING OF MIRRORS

FLASHBACK: NYARLATHOTEP'S LAIR

(This shows Tatsuya, Maya, Lisa, Eikichi, and Jun at Nyarlathotep's
lair, which looks identical to Philemon's Lair.  Philemon and
Nyarlothotep appear.)

PHILEMON: Going soft after playing the father?  Crawling
Chaos...Nyarlathotep.  Now you should understand what I said.

NAYRLATHOTEP: Ha...It may be true these people can give us good results
for our research...

GINKO: What are you saying, Philemon!?

PHILEMON: We are the orgin of people's hearts...The Collective
Unconsciousness is just one side of that coin...We've watched the
affairs of man from here...I direct the strong of will, and he, the
Crawling Chaos, drags the weak to Hell.  It is all in order to determine
if people's hearts, which are in conflict, can arise as something
complete...You all have displayed that possiblity.  If there are more
humans like you, humans can one day become a perfect existence...

TATSUYA: Everything...This is all part of your experiment!?

NYARLATHOTEP: You should show more respect to me. This one can only
observe.  However...I am different.

(A woman that looks like Maya Okamura from Seven Sisters High School
appears and stabs Maya with a spear. Maya then falls to the ground.)

MAYA: .......?

TATSUYA: Maya!!

(Tatsuya and co. rush over to Maya's side and Lisa uses her Persona to
heal Maya and Okamura teleports to Nyarlathotep's side.)

EIKICHI: Dammit! Ginko! Use your powers!

GINKO: I'm trying!! But...but...The blood won't stop!!  Why...Why won't
my spell work!? Philemon!?

PHILEMON: Nyarlathotep...You spread the legend of the Sacred Spear, for
this...?

NYARLATHOTEP: Blood poured endlessly from the body of God's son when
pierced with that spear. It's the legend..or, "rumor" that you humans
have continued to tell for some 2000 years.  Quuite effective, isn't
it?

MAYA:.....

MAYA:.......

TATSUYA: "Hurry up and forget about me?"...Don't be ridiculous...!!! How
could I forget...!!?

MAYA:.....

TATSUYA: Yeah...I'll grab it...You taught me...I'll grab hold of my
dream..so..

(Maya dies)

TATSUYA: ......Nooooooooooooooooooooooooo!!!

NYARLATHOTEP: Ha ha...Should people be able to realize their dreams?
Forsaking one of the same name, lost in illusion..This is this woman's
dream.  I will make the human's dream of destruction come true!!


REALITY

TATSUYA: Do you remember now...?

(Maya falls to the ground)

MAYA: ...........

KATSUYA: What happened...after that...?

TATSUYA: Maya, with the name of Maya Okamura, died...The prophecy
fullfilled...The whole world destroyed...leaving only Sumaru behind...

(Everyone is shocked.)

TATSUYA: In the World of Collective Unconsciousness, where we fought
him, strong beliefs became reality...By resetting our meeting 10 years
ago, we created another reality in exchange for the truths and memories
until then...

BAOFU: So that's this reality...

TATSUYA: Maya told us to forget about her...To accept everything and
move on...But we couldn't stand it...That's why we made this reality, to
trade for our memories and we escaped here...Hanging on to a faint
hope..to remember....

ULALA: .........

TATSUYA: A hope like that couldn't happen...My freinds that meshed in
This Side forgot about the Other Side, and each other...But...I...

BAOFU: So that's why Amano and that Jun kid don't remember about the
Other Side...

NATE: No wonder we natives of "This Side" don't have a memory of the
"Other Side"...

ELLEN: We don't have a memory of the "Other Side", because we are
natives of "This Side"...

TATSUYA: But that could change..."He" said I was "the Paradox"...This
reality exists on the concept of the resetting of us five...If we all
regain our memories, the distortion between the two worlds will
grow...And this world will cease to exist...

(Everyone is shocked.)

TATSUYA: I don't want Maya to be involved anymore...I'm sure you
understand now...Please stay out of this...

BAOFU: What were we talking about Serizawa?

ULALA: I don't know. Shouldn't the adults be the ones fooling the kids?

KATSUYA: No...It's about adults taking responsibility for children's
actions...

TATSUYA (shocked): ............(mad) You tricked me...

*MAYA: Dummy...! Look at you!*

(Maya slaps Tatsuya and everyone is surprised.)

TATSUYA: I-I...

(Maya slaps Tatsuya again.)

TATSUYA: I'm sorry...I understand...please don't get mad...

(NATE'S ROUTE)

NATE: Ha...I guess my work is done here...You're surrounded by good
adults boy...You had better appreciate what they do for you.

KATSUYA: What are you going to do...?

NATE: I'm going to walk a path I believe in. I'll do all I can to end
chaos in the city.

BAOFU: Heh...If we're both still alive, let's knock one back together...

(Nate nods his head and the screen goes black. Nate has left the group
and Tatsuya joins.)

(ELLEN'S ROUTE)

ELLEN: I guess this is it for my part...Tatsuya...now, it's a fight for
you and all...Take really good care of Ms. Amano.

ULALA: What are you going to do, Ellen?

ELLEN: With Nate, I'll help the people in this city. I will keep my
promise. For myself.

ULALA: Your smile looks better! You'll be just fine. Good luck!

(Ellen nods her head and the screen goes black. Ellen has left the group
and Tatsuya joins.)

CITY MAP: RENGEDAI

KATSUYA: We've wasted so much time...We'd better hurry and catch up with
Tatsuzou, before it's too late.

BAOFU: Kandori and that woman said that bastard headed for
Torifune...how can we find it?

TATSUYA: They created Torifune with a rumor, so if you follow the rumor
about the underground, you should find it...


GATTEN SUSHI

TATSUYA: Maya. Do you remember this is Eikichi's house? Eikichi...he's
not here...

ULALA: You must be puzzled Ma-ya.  I mean, you're dead on the Other
Side..Well...You might not have any feeling of reality though.


SUMARU PRISON

TTSUYA:: A live house...I haven't touched a guitar for awhile.

(The key to add Tatsuya to the Flamenco Contact.)

TATSUYA: This is...the first place we met the Joker.  Not the same Joker
from "This Side". ..I'm talking about my...our friend.


HIRASAKA SATOMI TADASHI

ULALA: Hmm, I wonder if Satomi Tadashi was popular on the "Other Side"
too? Hey Ma-ya, let's ask.

TATSUYA: Satomi Tadashi...? I'm not sure if it was popular, but I did go
there often.


IZAKAYA SHIRASHI

TATSUYA: ...Why?...This place is different from the "Other Side"... Too
different!

BAOFU: So this shop differs on the "Other Side". He doesn't have to be
that shocked, does he?

ULALA: So can only Tatsuya know the difference between here and the
"Other Side"? ...Ah, can you tell too, Ma-ya?

KATSUYA: I'm sure it's not as if only this shop is different from the
"Other Side".  Maybe he just hasn't noticed everything else.


KASU HIGH ROOFTOP

KATSUYA: On the "Other Side" I wasn't able to help...But not here.  As
the brother of Tatsuya, as protector of Justice, I will aid you!

MALE STUDENT: Did you watch TV today?...Wang Long fortune telling is
saying the pole shift is caused by New World Order?...What should we do?

YASUO: You don't know anything, do you?... First off, it's "Did you
watch the news on TV today", not "Did you watch TV?" ... The outside
world has nothing to do with us... Our wolrd consists of just "school".
Our worth as humans is decided here...


YUMEZAKI SATOMI TADASHI

ULALA: Tatsuya just told me about a good diet food.  He knows someone
who knows a lot about that stuff!


MU CONTINENT

KATSUYA: I bet you enjoyed gambling on the "Other Side" too..I don't
have to ask Tatsuya to tell.


PEACE DINER

ULALA: But I wonder...What am I like on the "Other Side"?  Maybe I was a
celebrity?

KATSUYA: Judging from that, it seems Tatsuya amd I are not on good terms
over on the "Other Side"
either...

TATSUYA: I see...Even on This Side she talks like a ninja...I guess it
can't be helped.


ROSA CANDIDA

TATSUYA: That cave was different on the "Other Side" as well...Of
course...Because there is no Masquerade here...


LUNAR PALACE

KATSUYA: It seems that on the "Other Side", this room is the same...Just
look at Tatsuya.

TATSUYA: ...Actually, I never planned to come back here
again......EVER...


SUMARU GENIE

BAOFU: I heard from Tatsuya on the "Other Side", that mystic was a
rumormonger. As I thought, it's slightly different.


KUZUNOHA

TATSUYA: The rumor was manipulated on the Other Side. Although I was
helped in many other ways, I bet they wouldn't know me... But are prices
higher on "This Side"?  That Lucky Cat asked for only 100 on the "Other
Side"...

KATSUYA: Tatsuya and those guys must've been using this place on the
Other Side like us...However, with a difference of 900 Yen.

BAOFU: Uhhuuuuuh, even on the "Other Side"...This ol' man is suspicious
too...Could he already be aware about Tatsuya?

TAMMY: New World Order's goal is an ambitious one.  It was beyodg my
imagination. Be careful, Ms. Amano.


SUBWAY

(Maya and the group enter inside the train and Maya takes the driver
seat.)

ULALA: Maybe they used this subway to transport stuff?  There's food and
all kinds of stuff.

BAOFU: Hmph, who're they kidding...They set this thing up and tried to
make a rumor come true, they must be insane...

KATSUYA: Um, Ms. Amano, are you sure you can drive? Perhaps I should,
instead?

(Maya shakes her head no and she starts to drive.  While riding......)

TATSUYA: .......

BAOFU: .....

ULALA: Hey Tatsuya I found some drinks, want some?

(Tatsuya shakes his head no and Ulala sits down.)

ULALA: Hey, Tatsuya...Something's been bugging me...Why are you the only
one who recalls the "Other Side"?

TATSUYA: .....

BAOFU: Don't have to say what you don't want to...Besides...What I want
to know is what are WE like on the "Other Side"?  We were there, right?

TATSUYA: My brother is pretty much the same...Ulala was scammed by a con
artist...I only know you spread rumors on the net...

BAOFU: So the "Other Side" is not that different...

TATSUYA: ..........Is it hard...being an adult?

BAOFU: Huh?

TATSUYA: No...never mind...Forget about it...

BAOFU: What about you?

TATSUYA: .........

BAOFU: It's the same...There's nothing good. The pain just keeps
growing...

ULALA: ........

KATSUYA / MAYA: ..........

KATSUYA: Hmm...? Ms. Amano, it's a dead end...Please stop.

(Maya stops the train.)

BAOFU: Welcome to the "Gates of Hell"...Worry about everything
later...You're still young...You got lots of time. That is, if you stay
alive...


SUBWAY CONSTRUCTION SITE:

(Talk to members)

ULALA: Adults, huh...? What are adults anyway?

TATSUYA: I guess we have to walk from here...We can't just go back
easily.  This is our last chance to turn back...

(If you decide to leave)

TATSUYA: Maya...are we going back...?

*MAYA: No, no, it's nothing.*


BAOFU'S LAIR (after being in the Subway)

ULALA: I was tricked by him on the "Other Side" after all. Huh...Just
like Ma-ya's flashback...

BAOFU: It seems I was collecting rumors over there too.  Not very
different from here...At one time I was kinda curious about an alternate
world...But it's actually pretty boring.


OUTSIDE AMENO TORIFUNE:

(Maya and co. are underground and they see the Ameno Torifune in the
distance.)


AMENO TORIFUNE CONTROL ROOM

(The scene cuts to the Control Room.  Tatsuzou is standing on a
plattform and his 4 NWO executives and General Sugawara are right behind
him.  Tenchu Soldiers and Scientists are watching him from below.)

TATSUZOU: Tenchu soldiers! Finally , the prophecy of Torifune has come
true! Gozen awaits! All we need to do now is release Joka to cleanse the
kegare of the world by the hands of the 12 Dragons!!

(The crowd cheers.)

TATSUZOU: We ask! What has human history been up 'til now!!  Various
religions! Tribes! Desires! Values! Was the human history laden with
these, a history of "sin"!!? The masses blessed with material, lost
their ideals. They don't examine themselves or even try to atone for
their sins! We must provide a dream of reconstructing a new future and
cleanse the rotting world!  This is the "Punishment"!!! And the chosen
ones will know!!! The future of salvation stands before us!

(The crowd cheers again and the screen darkens and moves to Sugawara.)

GENERAL SUGAWARA: You twisted bastard...

(The screen lightens up again.)

TATSUZOU: Sugawara...

GENERAL SUGAWARA: Yessir...

TATSUZOU: I leave the Torifune to you.  We will ascend to Utena with
Gozen.  Prepare the Petit Deva...

GENERAL SUGAWARA:  Yessir...it shall be done.

TATSUZOU: Do not worry about your frailty, my freind...Gozen is very
happy with your work. Your wish for immortality will be granted.

GENERAL SUGAWARA: Ah...! My loyalty has finally been rewarded...

TATSUZOU: Your body might change slightly though...

GENERAL SUGAWARA: What was that?

(Tatsuzou and his 4 NWO executives leave.)


OUTSIDE THE TORIFUNE

BAOFU: Hmmm...Impressive...

TATSUYA: Well, considering it can fly with a city on top of it, it
better be...

ULALA: This is rumored to be a ship of a god or aliens, right...? Don't
you think they would've set traps or something?

TATSUYA: This ship, called "Xibalba" on the "Other Side", makes bad
thoughts real...You shouldn't think of anything bad.

KATSUYA: How do you know...?

TATSUYA: People's fear...insecurity...hopes...It borrows the form of
rumors, it is the incarnation of the unconscious world...

(Tatsuya flicks his lighter.)

TATSUYA: I think that's why Philemon said thoughts would become reality
in the unconscious world...

ULALA: Then all we gotta do is think pleasant thoughts...Piece of
cake...

TATSUYA: No...This is his domain...Don't think anything...

(Maya and co. enter and inside, the whole room is hot and the party is
going crazy.)

KATSUYA: It, It's no use...! The door won't budge!

BAOFU: Yow! Hot!...What's going on!? Serizawa! You thought of something
bad, didn't you!?

ULALA: Yow! Hot!...It, It's not me!!!

TATSUYA: ...I'm sorry. It was something that happened
previously......So...I inadvertently...

BAOFU / ULALA: Wh, Wha-----t!?

KATSUYA: It's no use talking about what we thought!  So what happened on
the "Other Side", Tatsuya!?

TATSUYA: ...I ran.

BAOFU / KATSUYA / ULALA: Ahhhh!?

TATSUYA: "If you concertrate, even an oven is cool!" ...Is what Maya
said.

(Maya does her positive gesture and she and Tatsuya go ahead.  Ulala
trips and then catches up to them.)

KATSUYA: That's unreasonable...

BAOFU: You gotta be kiddin' me!? Yow! Hot! This is not my idea of fun...

(Baofu and Katsuya catch up with Maya and the others.)

BAOFU / KATSUYA: Uoooooh?!? My sunglasses are melting off my face!!!

(The party enters inside the Torifune.)


AMENO TORIFUNE

ROOM OF INSULT

(Dead Tenchu Soldiers are lying on the ground in a pool of blood.)

KATSUYA: This is the Tenchu Army. It seems that they were caught in a
trap...

ULALA: Is this also the work of that "Nyar-something"!? ...Isn't it
weird!?...Why does he kill his own men...!

TATSUYA: It's proof that the New World Order isn't aware of the secret
of the Torifune..."He" thinks of humans as mere pawns...They probaly
don't even know of "his" existence.

(Talk to Members)

TATSUYA: This ship...him...Neither one anything a human should mess
with...

BAOFU: I don't care about the Crawling Chaos, but I'm not letting them
get away...I'm gonna be the one to kill Tatsuzou...


ROOM OF DAMNATION

ULALA: Hey everyone, wait up a sec...Let's walk a little slower...

BAOFU: Suck it up...If you can't keep up, we're leaving you...

ULALA: It can't be helped...I don't walk this much even at work. Isn't
there a place to recover?

KATSUYA: It HAS been a while we've been underground. If there was a
Velvet Room, we could rest there...

TATSUYA: It's there...A Fountain, a Velvet Room...

ULALA: Really...!?

KATSUYA: It's awfully suspicious...That Nyarlathotep guy decides wether
or not to make our thoughts a reality, right? Why does he give things so
conviently?

TATSUYA: He's playing with us...

BAOFU: I don't know what he's up to, but if I can use it, then I will...

(Baofu and Ulala go in one door while Katsuya goes in one door alone.
Tatsuya begins to sit down and Maya sits next to him.)

MAYA: .........

TATSUYA: .........

MAYA: .........

(Tatsuya gets up.)

TATSUYA: .........

*MAYA: Th, Thank you for saving me...!*

TATSUYA: This is...the burden of sin...

TATSUYA: You...don't have to worry about me...

(Metal forms of Jun, Eikichi, and Lisa come out from the doors.)

TATSUYA: Wh...at...!?

METAL LISA: Why...Why is my only Chinyan (darling) next to Maya!?

METAL EIKICHI: That's cruel...Tatsu...You don't care about us?

(Maya and Tatsuya draw thier weapons.)

TATSUYA: Get back...!!! These are...illusions that my heart called!

(Tatsuya strikes Jun, but Jun is not affected.)

TATSUYA: Damn!

METAL JUN: Tatsuya...Was the promise to protect Maya a lie...?

TATSUYA: .........

METAL JUN: It's okay...You don't have to suffer by yourself anymore...

(The Metal kids disappear along with Tatsuya and Maya panics. Then the
others come out from the doors.)

ULALA: Huh...? Where's Tatsuya?

(Maya explains what happened.)

KATSUYA: What did you say...!?

BAOFU: Ch...! We fell for it...Come on! We gotta find him!

(Talk to party members)

ULALA: Oh, come on Ma-ya! What were you doing!!!...Wait...I'm the one
mostly at fault...

BAOFU: They pulled a dirty trick on us..I like his style...Too bad it
won't do him any good...

KATSUYA: Damn...Tatsuya's letting his pride get in the way. He's trying
to carry the weight of the world
on his shoulders...!


TORIFUNE B6

KATSUYA: Tatsuya's still alive...We must hurry...


ROOM OF GUILT

(The place is Araya Shrine. Tatsuya is tied onto an altar with the Metal
kids standing over him.)

METAL EIKICHI: "We went through a lot, but I'm glad we met again..."

METAL LISA: "Chinyan (darling)...Don't forget about me..."

METAL JUN: "I won't forget...the sin I commited, you or anyone..."
Tatsuya...Have you forgotten?

TATSUYA: How can I...forget...

METAL LISA: But...you broke an important promise, didn't you...?

METAL EIKICHI: That's why...you're suffering, right...?

TATSUYA: I'm sorry...

METAL JUN: Tatsuya...You can stop suffering...Let us ease you
suffering...?

(Jun tries to stab Tatsuya, but Tatsuya stops it with his hand.)

TATSUYA: Jun...I'll accept my punishment...But...not now...

(Maya and co. jump in and the Boss Battle Theme from Persona 2: Innocent
Sin plays.)

KATSUYA: Tatsuya!!

(Katsuya fires shots but doesn't affect the kids.)

BAOFU: Ch...Physical attacks don't even scratch 'em!

TATSUYA: .........!?

(Enter Battle)

METAL JUN: It's okay...You can stop suffering...

TATSUYA: I'll accept my punishment...But...not now...!

(After Battle)

(The room is back to normal and Katsuya is tending to Tatsuya's wounds.)

KATSUYA: I thought I taught you to hold a knife by its handle...

TATSUYA: I'm sorry...

KATSUYA: Don't say anything. My brother doesn't lower his head for
little things like this...

TATSUYA: No...The me of "This Side", also feels the same way...

KATSUYA: I see...

ULALA: How can you two be brothers?

(Talk to Members)

TATSUYA: I'm sorry Maya...I troubled you...


ROOM OF TRANSPORT

KATSUYA: Tatsuya...What is this?

TATSUYA: I think it's some sort of teleportation device...it was another
symbol in the "Other Side"...

ULALA: It's called..."Petite Deva". It's written here.

BAOFU: The symbol of Kandori...If we use this, we might be able to get
back to the city.


CONTROL ROOM

(Maya and co. enter and there are dead soldiers all covered in blood,
Katsuya checks one soldier's body.)

KATSUYA: He has a pulse...!!!

SOLDIER OF THE TENCHU ARMY: S...Save me...I don't...wanna die...

KATSUYA: ...It's alright...You're not gonna die...What happened...?

SOLDIER OF THE TENCHU ARMY:
General...became...monster......Everyone...killed...
Tell...daughter...grab...your dream...

MAYA / KATSUYA : .........

CREEPY VOICE: I......TAAAAIeeee...

ULALA: W, What...!?

TATSUYA: .........!?

(General Sugawara, who is now become a monster appears.)

WAS SUGAWARA: Aaaarrrgh!!! It hurts!!!

(A sound is heard and the party turns around to look at the screen.  An
FMV is shown of Sumaru Castle rising out near Seven Sisters High School.
The walls of the Torifune surround Sumaru City and it rises up
into the air.)

MAYA: .........!!!

ULALA: You're kidding me...?

KATSUIYA: What, have they done!?

BAOFU: Ch...!!!

(enter battle)

TATSUYA: Ugh...But, it's not too late...!!

TATSUYA: Sudou is probaly in that castle...! He still has to do the
Dragon Ritual...!!! We haven't lost yet...!!!

(after battle)

(Maya, Baofu, and Katsuya are firing shots at Sugawara and then Tatsuya
pushes him off the plattform using his sword.)

WAS SUGAWARA: Aaaarrrgh!!

KATSUYA: I don't care if you're immortal or not...You lose...

(a moment later)

BAOFU: It's no good, it's not budging an inch...We couldn't land this
ship even if we wanted to...

ULALA: What are we gonna do!?...The city's flying...At this rate, the
dragons will appear, and the earth's axis will rotate!

KATSUYA: As long as we're alive, we can stop him...Tatsuya is right. We
haven't lost yet...We're gonna bring this ship down the way we're gonna
bring down Sudou! Even if he has backup!

BAOFU: That's fine, but looking at the teleport device he used, we can't
stand around...A bit late, but we're going back up!!


ARAYA SHRINE

BAOFU: Hmmm...It looks like we caught the last ride out of there...

(Sumaru City is now in the air.  The City Map music is different (it's a
remix of the previous City Map Music.) and Sumaru Castle is now located
where Honmaru Park used to be. You can also get rumors from
2X Slash and Johnny Rogers and bring Clair de Lune to Aoba and Padparcha
in Konan.)

RENGEDAI SATOMI TADASHI:

TATSUYA: Ch...The Ameno Torifune...Even the shape is the same as the
Xibalba...

HIRASAKA SATOMI TADASHI:

SALAM LADEEN: Is it okay for a city to fly? Did the Lord allow it?
No...I must go. But the land is more
dangerous...


TOMI CHIROPRACTOR:

TATSUYA: Sumaru Castle....it was just a park on the Other Side...As I
figured, it's different from before.


IZAKAYA SHIRASHI:

SHIRASHI LADY: Something like this happened before. Xibalba...?Ohh...I'm
getting a funny feeling.
SUMARU PRISON:

KEN: Wonder what happened to Michel!? When it is like this, we got to be
worried! But I bet Ms. Miyabi is even more worried.

MIYABI: Eikichi is very lucky, isn't he? He has so many great
companions. I will believe in Eikichi's return and wait here.
KASU HIGH ROOFTOP:

MALE STUDENT: Yasuo!!!...Look at Narumi! It's all messed up!?

YASUO: Looking from up here, everything looks so small...(sigh)...If I
just realized sooner, my life might've been different....What...do I
want to do?

BIKINI LINE:

TATSUYA: It is lucky that at least the temple didn't come out. Even the
slightest difference from the Other Side is good.

AKI DUDE: What happened to me?...A while ago, I had a dream this city
was flying in the air...Could it have been a prophecy?

SEEDY CD:

STORE OWNER: It's funny, but I'm not surprised that this city's flying.
Was there something like this before? There wasn't, right?

IXQUIC: Oh, misses! Big problem, big problem!!! There's a faster demon
now! Now it's 200 km/h Fogey!! The kids in the neighborhood said they
saw it at The Seedy CD!!! I must fulfill my duty as the transmigrated
warrior maiden! Demons that threaten human's lives, I shall whoop your
asses!

(Spread the rumor, fight the 200 km/h Fogey and recieve the Top Speed
Title. Show it to Ixquic.)

IXQUIC: What the...!? The thing that you have...Isn't it Top Speed
Title!? Wow...Misses, you already beat up the 200 km/h Fogey? Are you a
transmigrated warrior, too? Please! Can you trade that Top-Speed Title
with my treasure? I REALLY need that! PLEASE!!!

*MAYA: (Trade)*

IXQUIC: Really!? Yaaaaaaaay!!! Okay then, here's your Legenbright.
Thanks, Misses!!!

IXQUIC: Now that I think about it, I feel I've met you before. I wonder
if this is also memories from my previous life...

JOHNNY ROGERS

ULALA: I see...Everyone thinks the events that happened on the "Other
Side" are dreams or something.

TATSUYA: There are more people who saw the same spectacle. It's proof
that the world is starting to
disappear...At this rate...

RUMORMONGER BARKKEPER: So this a prophetic dream...I dreamt awhile back
that the city was floating. The ship below was called the "Xibalba"...

SUMARU GENIE

TATSUYA: Ulala asked me what I was called on the "Other Side"...All I
did was answer...

ULALA:Awwwwwwwwwe...Tatsuya was called "Tatsu" over on the "Other Side".

KATSUYA: "Tatsu", huh...It's not a bad nicknam. Hmm? Then what about me?


HIIRAGI THERAPY:

ULALA: Ma-ya! Mary went out on her own! Is she okay?

REIKO: Mary went outside. She said she couldn't leave the city as it
is...I hope she's alright...

PADPARCHA:

TATSUYA:"Everyone has the right to grasp a dream". That is what you said
on the Other Side, but do I really have the right to grasp one?...


SUMARU TV:

CORPSE OF A TENCHU SOLDIER: (Looks like he was a member of the Civil
Defense Force. He's already stopped breathing.)

BRAD: Da ha ha ha...What happened? You look so surprised. Are you
surprised by my activity? Da ha ha ha! ...Well, that's the deal, so you
guys go on to the Sumaru Castle without any worry. I'll show the people
of the city just how way cool I am.

MAMI: It seems Lisa hasn't come home yet either. Where could she have
gone at a time like this...? Even this place would have been in danger
if it weren't for Mr. Brad Uesugi...Her father must be worried as well.

MIHO: Did you know? Brad Uesugi is very powerful! He may be a good match
for Lisa's father. But based on impact, Lisa's dad wins! He's REALLY
scary when he's mad. He does not say a word! He's like a
"silent" dad.


KISMET: LOBBY

BAOFU: I understand Suou's apprehension...But just worrying about it
doesn't do us any good. There was once a Sumaru Castle, and now there is
a Sumaru Castle at the same location...That's all.

TATSUYA: It's just like Baofu said...The Sumaru Castle wasn't on the
"Other Side"...But it is on "This Side"...That's all.


KISMET EDITORIAL ROOM:

FUJII: Eh, Yukki? Yukki went out to protect everybody...To stop the
Tenchu Army. I'm going to record
this real event in its entirety on film. That's the onlt thing I can
do....That is my cuase.


MIZUNO'S OFFICE:

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF MIZUNO: Amano!...Get that man out of here! I let him in
becuase the Editor-in-Chief of Moo magazine insisted. I found out it was
to get rid of him! There's no time for that!!

MR. KASHIHARA: Hello there...I checked the legend about this incident,
and I found out something incredible! I thought I thought I had to let
the Editor-in-Chief of Moo magazine know about this...It's a little
long, but would you listen?

*MAYA: This isn't Moo.*

MR. KASHIHARA: Oh really?...I'm terribly sorry.

(A moment later)

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF MIZUNO: Who was that man...?


PARABELLUM:

MATSUOKA: With the surfacing of Ameno Torifune, and the show of the
Tenchu Army, this city's in more chaos than ever...But, don't
worry...Leave the safety of the people to us.  Master Nate is battling
the Tenchu Army with his comrades. Master Amano, you have a mission to
accomplish...Please hurry to Sumaru Castle.

RUMOR-LOVIN' BARTENDER: Oh welcome! I'm so glad, you are unharmed...Huh,
me? There was a rumor amongour regulars that Narumi was in danger. You
wouldn't want anything to happen for real, right?
Then right when I moved just to be safe....Now this world is really
going to end? Ah, but at least we're still safe.

RUMOR-LOVIN' BARTENDER: Do you know the purging of the Tenchu Army? They
kill those who have Kegare in them...Please watch out!

SUMARU CASTLE

STATUE OF JOKA: I am Joka...The one who opens the door to Utena...it is
suggested to solemly offer
ancient prayers...

STATUE OF FUKUGI: I am Fukugi...Prayers of Kotodama, the spirited
words...You should gather the 7
Kotodama and offer ancient prayers....

(talk to party members)

ULALA: This is the "Big Dipper", right? There's one more in between the
statues..What's that one?

BAOFU: There's no door connecting to the back...So those lights lead to
somewhere....

KATSUYA: Prayers? Seven Kotodama...? Are they saying if we don't figure
this out, we won't be able to open Utena's door?

TATSUYA: A black hole...That means trouble...


KEGARE CHAMBER

(Talk to party members)

BAOFU: We can't just destroy that thing without giving it some thought
first...They saved up some pretty nasty things.

ULALA: How much is in there...? The back is all hazy, so I can't see...

KATSUYA: The Kegare they got from the people...They're transporting
it...somewhere...

TATSUYA: I cannot run away from my sin....so easily...I have to atone
for my sin by myself...

CHAMBER OF HENBAI

PLAINSPHERE LITHOGRAPH: One who knoweth the intention of the 7 Kotodama.
Thou shalt offer the great paryer.

(PASSWORD IS PERSEUS)

PLAINSPHERE LITHOGRAPH: One who realizes the intention of the Seven
Spirits offer the Henbai of Perseus, and walk the path to the stage. If
thou completest this, the Hokutoku Gohou shall be unbound, and
the path to the Stage shall open.

KATSUYA: I did some research prior to coming here. Perseus is a
constellation named after the man who slew Medusa in Greek mythology.
Many people of ancient times believed in the stars, and it's no surprise
that Perseus was picked. He was a heroic figure. It IS a bit odd for
them to use a Western name, but people today have strange ideas of
magic. Another effect of rumors, I guess.

ULALA: Wow, you're such a hardworking guy. So what's a "henbai"?

KATSUYA: Henbai is a type of "magical stepping" that originated in
China. With this, you crush evil stars and invite good luck. Hokutoku is
a magic where  you draw Ursa Major on the earth to sanctify and protect
that area...Most likely, it means to walk in a certain pattern, or
something like that...


CHAMBER OF UTENA

(The Four NWO executives are lying dead becuase Tatsuzou Sudou killed
them with a sword, the party comes inside and confronts him.)

KATSUYA: Sudou...!? You bastard...!!!

BAOFU: You've finally gone mad...Tatsuzou!!!

TATSUZOU: Mad you say...? This world is what's gone mad!  Tell me what
is stirring this country!!

TATSUZOU: Fronts, fatigue, and contradictions...People think only of
themselves!! And so, punishment will be yours again!! This world is
decayed..The law, the system, and all humans who live off of it!!!

KATSUYA: Damn you, Tatsuzou! What right do you have to judge us!?

BAOFU: That's bullshit...Deceiving people with stupid curses...Your
deception ends here, old man!

TATSUZOU: Fools...You don't understand human nature.  Curses and
fortunes were things you wanted! Look down there! People are still
curious about fortunes, jinxes, and wish for good luck...You cannot stop
a heart that involunterily pumps its blood for curses!... Or the pulsing
power of life it brings!

TATSUZOU: Arise, Gozen! I have delivered you the Kegare of my sinful
compratriots! Let people's words become a reality!!!

(An FMV plays of the dragons being summoned from around the world, and
they all gather at Sumaru Castle.)

ULALA / MAYA: Oh my God!

TATSUZOU: Hahaha!! Hya--hahaha!! Behold!! The Earth Dragon will destroy
Earth along with Joka!! The axis will shift and people shall die!! I
have transformed history!! What is life if you can't even bear this!?

(Tatsuzou starts to shake.)

TATSUZOU: Gwo..!? GGGGGGG..G, Gozen..Why me too......!?

(Ttasuzou is transformed into a beast called  the Detested Hunter.)

DETESTED HUNTER: SHAGYAAAAAAA!!

(enter battle)

TATSUYA: Another one...has fallen...

BAOFU: What a pathetic sight..Tatsuzou...THIS is the result of deceiving
people!?

KATSUYA: Your dirty sins..We shall cleanse them!

(after battle)

ULALA: It's no use...The Earth Dragon and Joka aren't disappearing! At
this rate...

BAOFU: The source of evil still remains...Tatsuya! Is that dried up
thing "him"!?

(The 4 NWO executives disolve into Kegare and go inside the statue.
Gozen reveals his true form as a big monster. A.K.A Kiyotada Sumaru.)

(enter battle)

TATSUYA: I see...You won't come out until I defeat this guy...

GOZEN: Who are you, to awaken me from my slumber!?

(After Battle)

(Gozen lies on the floor.)

BAOFU: Did we do it...!?

(Gozen explodes into pink energy.)

KATSUYA: That can't be...What the hell is that...!?

(An FMV plays of Sumaru City in chaos. The dragons disappear, the
Torifune walls twist and crumble, and Sumaru City is being sucked into
an unknown dimension. A small version of Nyarlathotep's lair is seen.)


MONADO MANDALA

ULALA: Where the hell are we!?

(Nyarlathotep, who is disguising himself as Tatsuya in his Seventh
uniforn appears.)

NYARLATHOTEP: My domain, the Collective Unconsciousness...Welcome.

KATSUYA / MAYA / BAOFU: Tatsuya...!?

(Tatsuya strikes Nyarlathotep, but Nyarlathotep grabs the edge of
Tatsuya's sword.)

TATSUYA: Oooooooo-----!!!

(Maya and co. draw thier weapons.)

NYARLATHOTEP: (snicker)...Easy now...You wouldn't want to hurt this
pretty face of yours? It suits me, don't you agree?

TATSUYA: Shut up...!!!

NYARLATHOTEP: Humans are strange...I came here because you wanted to
meet me...Now you want me to go? You're contradicting yourself...

NYARLATHOTEP (as Ulala): By the way...do you know the "three poisons of
life"?...What I'm referring to is "Anger", "Ignorance", and "Vengeance".

NYARLATHOTEP (as Baofu): There are countless others, but these are my
primary sources of power.

NYARLATHOTEP (as Katsuya): Oh, come now...You disappoint me...It's
really simple...Even your pathetic brain can comprehend that...

KATSUYA: Are you trying to say...that you are the "shadow" of us
humans!?

NYARLATHOTEP (as Maya): So, you do understand...I am a reflection of
your true selves...Let's play one last game...

(Eikichi, Jun, and Lisa appear, but they are chained up in the air and
Nyarlathotep reverts back to his Tatsuya form.)

TATSUYA: Jun...Eikichi...Lisa!!!

NYARLATHOTEP: You remember what I told you, right? If they remember the
Other Side, then this world will cease to exist.  You of all people
should understand...Right, Tatsuya? The Paradox?

TATSUYA: Ch...

NYARLATHOTEP: If you can show me your powers to suppress shadows in this
world, I will give back the toys one at a time. But if you cannot...They
will regain their memories and I will destroy your
world...We shall start anew. Give it your best shot...Then, show me your
desperate faces. (snicker)

(Eikichi, Jun and Lisa disappear and so does Nyarlathotep.)

(Talk to your party memebers)

ULALA: Ma-ya...did you feel that...? That giant energy...It was so
deep...Mixed with a bunch of dark emotions...Can we...defeat that...?

BAOFU: Damn...I'm turning pale...? Calm down...You're Kaoru
Saga...There's nothing you can't do...Calm down...

KATSUYA: Tatsuya...You foguht with that monster all this
time...No...That ridiculing...that arrogance...That is
undoubtedly...human itself...

TATSUYA: I'm sorry...Jun...Eikichi...Lisa...I'll...save you...I WILL...


ROOM OF REASON

FLASHBACK SEVEN SISTERS HIGH SCHOOL: FACULTY ROOM

(This shows Katauya when he was a student and he's talking to Akanari
Kashihara.)

MR. KASHIHARA: Suou, are you sure...? That you wont to give up your
dream as a...dessert chef...

HIGH SCHOOL KATSUYA: That's "Partisser".

MR. KASHIHARA: That's right. So...you sure?...

HIGH SCHOOLKATSUYA: I've decided on my own...After law school, I'll
become a police officer.

MR. KASHIHARA: With your grades, you can go anywhere...It's your father,
isn't it?

HIGH SCHOOL KATSUYA: ...You have nothing to do with it. Excuse me.

(Katsuya exits.)


REALITY

(The party draws their weapons and see Shadow Katsuya.)

SHADOW KATSUYA: Hmph...Regrets are at an extreme, aren't they...

KATSUYA: Nonsense! I don't regret anything!

SHADOW KATSUYA: Lying is the start of evil...You really despise your
father and brother, huh? If not for them, you could've had your way.
You're probaly tired of playing the good older brother...Your love for
your family is just a role.

KATSUYA: That's...not...true...

BAOFU: What's wrong, Suou!? Stay sharp...!

SHADOW KATSUYA: Don't play innocent...You're in love with that woman...
(referring to Maya)

MAYA / TATSUYA: .........!?

SHAODW KATSUYA: You're just decieving yourself in front of your brother.
Fulfill your desires. Why
protect such a brother any longer?

(Katsuya aims his gun towards Tatsuya.)

ULALA: W, Wait, Big Suou!? Get a hold of yourself!!! Ma-ya, stop him!!

TATSUYA: .........

*MAYA: I believe in you...*

KATSUYA: Tatsuya...I'll tell you...What that guy is saying
is...Partially true, and partially untrue!!!

(Katsuya fires a shot at Shadow Katsuya.)

KATSUYA: You made a mistake...You tried to get between us brothers with
that face!! You're an eyesore...Get lost.

SHADOW KATSUYA: Hmph...Too bad.

(Shadow Katsuya vanishes)

TATSUYA: Brother...I'm...

KATSUYA: Don't make that face...You're my little brother...

KATSUYA: I caused everyone trouble...It's okay now.

(Talk to members)

ULALA: Now whatcha gonna do, Ma-ya? Younger or older, it's a hard
choice...

BAOFU: That brother complex couldn't kill his own little
brother...Dammit...Just watching him embarreses
me...

KATSUYA: Ms. Amano...uh...That was half true and...half...But...You
know...um...Thank you. It was
because of you...Take care of Tatsuya.

TATSUYA: He...can protect Maya...Now...I can rest easily...


ROOM OF INSTINCT

FLASHBACK: EBONY

(This shows Maya and Ulala sitting at a table.)

ULALA: ...So you see, he was thinking he was all hot shit, when in
fact...Hey, Ma-ya, you listening!?

ULALA: ...That Deja Vu Boy again?

(Maya nods)

ULALA: You're so lucky...Compared to me...Why do I have such bad luck
with men!? It's always been like that! You were always getting
attention! Why do I have to be the ugly skank!?  I'm 10 times prettier
than you...I'm also athletic, fashionable, and a great homemaker. I'm
even a good dancer to boot! (sigh)...What's wrong with me...So I might
not have all the curves...I've been working my ass off at a boring
job...It's probaly that...I'm not satistfied with myself...I don't have
my place in this world...Seriously, I'm so jealous of you...Uh...Hello!?
I've been ripping into you for the past 5 minutes and all you can do is
sleep...?

(Ulala gets up.)

ULALA: Sometimes, I wonder why I even bother...Well you do work late
everyday...Let's go home, Ma-ya...Here, grab your purse.


RELAITY

(Shadow Ulala is shown and the party draws their weapons.)

SHADOW ULALA: That is so pathetic. Drunkiness, complaining,
jealousy...Appeal rating: ZERO...You're not qualified to be a woman...No
one would even look at a woman like you. Looking after that girl is just
to hide your inferiority complex.

ULALA: Ugh...You don't have to rub it in...

SHADOW ULALA: How<3ev<3er<3 Even the fool is starting to realize it in
her own foolish way, huh? (to Maya) You're her best freind. Wether she
found herself or not...You tell her instead.

*MAYA: It's not up to me to answer...*

ULALA: Thanks, Ma-ya...I was wrong to try and find myself...You have to
make yourself!  I'm nowhere to be found! It's me who's gonna decide
what's gonna happen!!!

SHADOW ULALA: How boring...That puts a damper on my day.

(Shadow Ulala vanishes.)

(Talk to members.)

BAOFU: You don't find yourself, you make yourself...Huh, that's not bad,
especially from Ulala...

KATSUYA: Still...What is their objective? Why are they not attacking...?
Why are they beating around the bush...?

ULALA: There's only one good thing about all this...I met all of
you...I'll thank fate for that...

TATSUYA: Thesa are his old tricks...showing us our shadows...Don't fall
for it...You'll be swallowed by the shadows...


ARAYA SHRINE

BAOFU: Geez, we're here again...Can't he do something different...

ULALA: But, if we come through here, we can always come back to the
city, so don't you think we're lucky?

KATSUYA: This is his doing too, right? It bothers me because it seems
like he's trying to show off his comfortability.

TATSUYA: Everything begins here...And ends here...Is that what he wants
to say...


(Sumaru City is now in the Collective Unconsciousness and the sky is
red. The City Map Music seems pretty upsetting and dull IMO. Nothing too
new, but the Bomb Shelter 8 at Kasu High is now open.)

GATTEN SUSHI:

KATSUYA: For everyone's sake...We cannot lose, Ms. Amano.

BAOFU: So after all, Yung Pao and that Tatsuzou were all just
Nyarlathotep's pawns...He's really just playing around with us.

ULALA: Hey Ma-ya, do you think I could take this fish home with me? I'm
not going to eat it! It's going to be a pet!

KANKICHI: Eikichi? He's not back yet...He'll be fine...He's not one to
die so easily...How can a true man make sushi if he doesn't believe in
his own son! Until his return, I'll just make sushi!

TATSUYA: Eikichi...I will end this no matter what...Just wait for me....


KUZUNOHA

ULALA: We can't just leave those kids alone! Ma-ya, let's hurry!

TATSUYA: That is "HIS"...That's Nyarlathotep's way...Be careful, Maya.

TAMMY: He's still not home even in this situation. Isn't he worried
about me? Taaaaaad, where did you go!?

KISMET: EDITORIAL ROOM

FUJII" I don't really understand what's going on, but you, Mackey,
Yukki, and your freinds are...walking the path you believe in...Mackey,
reach for stars.

KISMET: CHIEF'S OFFICE:

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF MIZUNO: Amano...What was my life, that was all about
work...? The city flies, some wierd incident happens, and no one knows
what is real...When I thought of what reality is to me...I realized
I've never experienced any...I was just working without a purpose. I
wasn't like this before...I had a dream...

*MAYA: You can recapture your dreams!!!*

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF MIZUNO: Amano...You're right...! I can't lose out to
young people. Now go...I don't know the details, but you have something
you must do, right? Say hello to the man with sunglasses.


EHTERIA:

ULALA: Ulala Serizawa, no abnormality found here! Now, let's go!

TATSUYA: I am prepared for this...Let's go, Maya!

KATSUYA: I'm fine, Ms. Amano...I'm ready to go!

BAOFU: Me? I could use some liquor at the moment...But other than that,
there's no problem.

ROSA CANDIDA:

ULALA: Nyarlathotep won't get his way! Let's do it, Ma-ya.

TATSUYA: I will defeat Nyarlathotep!...And I will end this all!

BAOFU: I have nothing against Nyarlathotep, but he got me involved. He's
gonna pay for that...

KATSUYA: Even if I am not with the force now, my heart remains the same
as before...I WILL bring back peace to the people.


HIRASAKA SATOMI TADASHI:

SALEEM LADEEN: Dragons...They really did exist...There are many
mysteries on the earth! I might find a new hobby.

BACK AT MONADO MANDALA:

WORLD OF JUDGEMENT

KATSUYA: Miss Serizawa, do you feel it...?

ULALA: Yeah...Our impostors, right? We have to settle this ourselves...


ROOM OF JUDGEMENT

TATSUYA: Eikichi!

SHADOW ULALA: Isn't that nice. He's still asleep.

KATSUYA: Put him down!

(enter battle)

SHADOW ULALA: You ARE a fool.

SHADOW KATSUYA: Hpmh...If you want him back, you'll have to take him by
force.

KATSUYA / ULALA: You're on!!

(after battle)

TATSUYA: Eikichi...

KATSUYA: He's not awake. For the time being, we're safe...

ULALA: But...Are you sure about this Tatsuya? Leaving him without any
memories of you...He's your freind, right?

TATSUYA: It's...okay...

(A golden butterly appears over Eikichi.)

TATSUYA: Philemon...

PHILEMON: I will return him to the real world...I am sorry, but taking
him with you is exactly what he wants...It is hard, but move on...

(Philemon and Eikichi vanishes.)

(Talk to members)

KATSUYA: Ms. Amano...He said anger is the shadow's source of power,
didn't he...? I'm sorry...But I don't think I can hold myself back...I
don't care how much I'm despied...But I cannot sit here and watch
everyone suffer...

TATSUYA: I WILL protect..."This Side" and...everyone's memories...

BAOFU: Amano...Our little group here's a bunch of barbarians...You
better be prepared...

ULALA: I've...never been so angry for someone esle in all my life...What
did Tatsuya do to deserve this...?


ROOM OF KNOWLEDGE

(The party is taken to a cemetary. A grave is open in the ground and
Reverse Odysseus is choking some woman and banging her up to a tree,
which Baofu reacts to.)

MIKI: Kaoru...

*MIKI ASAI*
An investigator who was Baofu's partner. While investigating "Tien Tao
Lien", she was killed by Yung Pao in Taiwan.

BAOFU: Miki...!?

ULALA: Is that...Miki...?

REVERSE ODYSSEUS: Kaoru Saga...I am you...What is yours is also mine...

MIKI: Uh...! Please...

ULALA: Stop it!!!

REVERSE ODYSSEUS: Do you feel the abger inside of you? Who is it for?
I'll give you the answer in this woman's blood.

BAOFU: Why you...

(Reverse Odyyseus continues to strangle Miki and bang her up to the tree
harder than before.)

MIKI: .........

BAOFU: You f##kin' bastard!!!!!!

*MAYA: Don't do it!*

(Maya stops Baofu)

BAOFU...Me!!! It's not Tatsuzou, not Yung Pao, or you...!!! The one I
can't forgive is...me!!!

(Reverse Odysseus and Miki disappear and then Miki re-appears over the
open grave.)

BAOFU: I'm sorry...Miki...That time I was just a hot shot...I wasn't
able to do anything...I shouldn't have gotten you involved...It was my
fault that you died that day...It wasn't the Persona, it wasn't the
law...It was me...It was my fault. I was so damn selfish...

MIKI: Don't blame yourself...I knew the risk I was taking...You never
looked back...You always believed you were right...I liked that
person...

(Miki disappears)


REALITY

BAOFU: .........

KATSUYA / MAYA / TATSUYA: .........

BAOFU: How pathetic...Everything's out in the open...Now you see...I was
planning to use you guys from the begining! Somewhere inside, I
knew...That I couldn't do anything by myself...Heh...I wanted revenge so
bad...But I couldn't give you my real name...

ULALA: ....I...I think it's a nice...name...! I...I think it's a cool
name...! It has a nice ring to it...

KATSUYA: I was thinking...and now it's clear..."Kaoru Saga" died on duty
5 years ago...The man in front of me is a different person than the one
we saw...A bit misguided, perhaps...A "free spirit"..."A loveable
lush"...

ULALA: ...Didn't you forget "twisted person"?

BAOFU: .........Ch...Don't put me in the same shot glass as those
sentimental wussies...

BAOFU: And you know what, Suou? You're not cut out to be a police
officer. Investigations are supposed to be...

(Talk to Party Members)

ULALA: Ma-ya...You remember that fortune I told you about in the
beginning? I think...it's right...

BAOFU: Well...um..ya know...There's a lot...in life...

KATSUYA: Geez, what an antisocial Baofu...Ms. Serizawa must have a
difficult time.

TATSUYA: I've never met anyone like this guy before...


ROOM OF EMOTION

(Nyarlathotep is standing in the middle of the room and the party draws
out their weapons.)

NYARLATHOTEP: I'm glad you made it here without dying. Of course, it
would be dull for you to die so easily. Now, Maya Amano...After coming
here, what are you angry at?

*MAYA: I'm just...very sad...*

NYARLATHOTEP: Hmph...How sentimental...What are you so sad about? Now,
go ahead and shoot. Deep down inside, I know you hate me. Pull the
trigger, Maya.

(Maya aims her gun at Nyarlathotep.)

NYARLATHOTEP: Well then, I'll say the one thing you want to hear the
least. The young man who holds your heart...He's mine. He's a toy in the
shape of a human! He'll never be yours! Never!!!

*MAYA: (Don't Pull The Trigger)*

NYARLATHOTEP: Hmph...This will be something to watch. How long can you
keep this up?

(Nyarlathotep disappears.)

(Talk to Party Members.)

TATSUYA: It's alright...That sadness...will end soon...

KATSUYA: Ms. Amano, stay strong...He is trying to coax the shadows of
our hearts to gain power...I finally understand.

BAOFU: That's definitely human...The way he looks down on others, that's
something only humans can do...Heh...All right...I'll tango with ya. As
another human...

ULALA: Going through all this, and you're not supposed to get upset!? I
ain't no nun or preist! I can't stand it!!!


WORLD OF CONVICTION

BAOFU: Hey, Maya...Guess it's our turn next...

MAYA: .........


ROOM OF CONVICTION

TATSUYA: Lisa...!

(Shadow Baofu and Shadow Maya appear.)

SHADOW MAYA: Are you relieved...little boy? But we can't let you have
her back quite so easily.

SHADOW BAOFU: Heh...Such being the case...I'll be sure to teach her a
lesson, so you can die in peace.

(enter battle)

MAYA: .........

BAOFU: Try picking on someone your own size...How about me?

SHADOW MAYA: (snicker) You make me laugh..

SHADOW BAOFU: Yeah, that makes me laugh!!

(after battle)

(Lisa is lying on the ground.)

TATSUYA: .........

BAOFU: Did you know, Tatsuya...? There are two types of men in this
world...A "normal" man and...a "real" man. A "real" man knows how to
ease sadness...You're undoubtly the latter...

TATSUYA: .........

(The golden butterlfy appears over Lisa.)

TATSUYA: Philemon...Please...

TATSUYA: I know...I will take her back to the real world...

(Philemon and Lisa disappear.)

(Talk to party members)

KATSUYA: .........

BAOFU: You should be proud...The person protecting you is the world's
finest...Undoubtly, the real thing...

ULALA: Is this...the burden of an 18 year-old boy is supposed to carry
on his shoulders...? It's just too brutal...

TATSUYA: .........Let's move on. I'm...ready.


NYARLATHOTEP'S LAIR

(Nyarlathotep is standing in the middle and the party appears. They draw
out their weapons.)

NYARLATHOTEP: Congratulations...You finally made it...The last toy is
right here...

(Jun is shown chained in the air.)

MAYA: .........

TATSUYA: Give...Jun back...!!!

NYARLATHOTEP: You're wondering why nothing has happened to you. Well, I
saved the best for last...We must show your secret to your freinds.
Right, "Paradox Boy"?...


FLASHBACK: NYARLATHOTEP'S LAIR

(This shows the continuing scene from the final flashback at Mt. Iwato
after Maya dies.)

NYARLATHOTEP: Huhahahahaha!!! You have learned something. The reality of
the world..There are things that you have no control over! I am the
shadow of all humans. As long as humans have dark hearts, I will live.
Face the last trial of the Crawling Chaos!!!

(Nyarlathotep changes into a monster-like creature and disappears along
with Maya Okamura.)

PHILEMON: There is a way to change this reality. You must forget about
that one summer day...Nyarlathotep began weaving the threads of fate
that day...If we erase that instance, this tragedy would never have
occured. A new time woven and a world reborn...

EIKICHI: You can...do that...?

PHILEMON: Realize this...A human's heart possess the power to change the
flow of reality. Even without the Xilbalba or the Crystal Skull, your
strong will and action have the energy to change reality. Even the
power that created the cosmos you live in is the same as yours..In this
collective unconsciousness, it is
possible.

JUN: Do you mean start over from the beginning?  In return for
our...memories...?

GINKO: You mean...forget everyone...!? I...I don't want to!!  Isn't
there another way!?

PHILEMON: Not in this world, where he has power. The dark hearts of
people unconsciously doing world destruction is his source of power...In
order to suppress him, people must change...You will create the new
world...

JUN: I...won't forget...How can I forget...

EIKICHI: Hell yeah...I ain't gonna forget...!! If everything was set up
by him, then let's do it...Let's teach him that things won't go his way
anymore...

GINKO: We...WILL...meet again, right...?

PHILEMON: Then see yourself as who you should be. Your powers should
mold a new reality.

(Jun disappears, then Eikichi, and then the dead Maya. Lisa walks up to
Tatsuya to give him a kiss.)

GINKO: A kiss...So that I won't forget about my Tatsuya...

(Lisa disappears.)

PHILEMON: Well then...We will part for a short time. Are there any final
words you want to say?

*TATSUYA: (Hit Him)*

(Tatsuya punches Philemon and Philemon's mask comes off.  His face is
the same as Tatsuya's.)

PHILEMON: I am the one who exists in the boundary between the
consciousness and the unconsciousness...I am you and you are I...I will
always be watching from within you...Farewell...

(Tatsuya disappears.)

(An FMV plays of the kids saying goodbye to each other)

EIKICHI: We went through a lot, but I'm glad we met again. Don't forget
what you promised dude.

LISA: Tatsuya...Don't forget me...I do love you.

JUN: You won't forget, or say goodbye. Just thank you.

TATSUYA: I don't want to forget what happened! How can I forget?   Guys,
don't go...Don't leave me alone...Please no, please no.  No!....(echoes)

(Tatsuya disappears. FMV ends there.)


REALITY

KATSUYA / MAYA / BAOFU / ULALA: .........!!!

NYARLATHOTEP: (chuckles) How's that, Tatsuya Suou!? Do you like your
punishment?  You couldn't ask them to fight with you. That's because the
sole reason the world is at the brink of destruction
is...YOU!!!

TATSUYA: .........

NYARLATHOTEP: You broke your promise with your freinds. The condition to
stay in this world was to give up your memories from the old world!!!
But you rejected it, ...At that moment, the boundary
seperating the 2 worlds vacillated...That was you!!! That's why you
failed to synchronize with the you of this world...

MAYA: .........

NYARLATHOTEP: Push all the pain upon your freinds, and still retain your
memory...That's an unforgivable sin...A sin must have punishment.
That's why I gave you the chance to meet her again. I coaxed fate for
you all to meet again.

TATSUYA: Ch...

NYARLATHOTEP: What's wrong?...Are you going to hide in your shell again?
That face of yours when you met that woman and regained your
memories...You should have seen it...

MAYA: .........

NYARLATHOTEP: Am I detestable? But that is what you humans desired...You
craved destruction from the depths of your hearts...That is me! The
shadow does not forgive anyone who goes against fate.

BAOFU: Ahhh, shut up...You can take this fate of yours and stick it up
your ass!  Listen up, Tatsuya...Fate is...

KATSUYA: No different than a prediction too late. If something happens,
all you have to say is this...

ULALA: "It was all fate!"

NYARLATHOTEP: Muhahahaha...!!! Pathetic humans! I'll show you what
happened to those who said the same thing to me in the past!!!

(Nyarlathotep transforms into his Moon Howler form.)

(Enter Battle)

NYARLATHOTEP: Understand that there is no point in living! Cry, that
there is no answer! Where there is darkness, there are shadows! I,
myself, am all of you humans!!

TATSUYA: I won't turn my back again...On the sin I committed..Nor on
myself!!

TATSUYA / NYARLATHOTEP: OOOOOOOOOOOOOOHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!

(After you beat his Moon Howler form, he'll change into his true form,
which is a "mass of gods with 1000 names and faces at the center of
space" as his description says.)

NYARLATHOTEP: Fuhahahahaha! This is! Splendid! You are the first to see
this form! Die with my highest praise!

(After Battle)

NYARLATHOTEP: It...can't be...!? It's not possible...!!! This
contradiction...I won't accept i--t!!!

(Philemon appears in the air carrying Jun in his arms.)

PHILEMON: Crawling Chaos, accept your defeat...

NYARLATHOTEP: Philemon!!!

PHILEMON: They represent the potential of mankind. You, the dark side of
the collective unconsciousness, are linked to all humans. THAT is
why...They...moved the hearts of the people...

KATSUYA: All potential is born from chaos...I see...That's right...

NYARLATHOTEP: Hmph...

NYARLATHOTEP: Muhahaha...!!! What irony!!! THIS is my FATE...!?

NYARLATHOTEP: But...remember this...! The masses of idiocy that squim in
the center of the cosmos are yourselves...!!! As long as I you
exist...so too shall I...!!!

BAOFU: You're too damn stubborn...There's no such thing as a human
without shadows...We'll make you remember that your place is here...Just
go to Hell and be done with it...

(Maya shoots at Nyarlathotep and Tatsuya strikes Nyarlathotep.
Nyarlathotep screams and disappears.)

ULALA: It's over...

TATSUYA: No...There's still...one more thing...

TATSUYA: The fact remains that I'm the Paradox...If I stay here...Then
"This Side" will be engulfed by the "Other Side"...

BAOFU / KATSUYA: .........

ULALA / MAYA: Tatsuya...You're not...

TATSUYA: I'm going home...

*MAYA: Tatsuya...Thank you for everything...*

TATSUYA: I made a promise to Jun...He kept his word...Now it's my
turn...The only thing left on the Other Side is our city.  We'll rebuild
a great world...

KATSUYA: Tatsuya...You...

(Energy surrounds Tatsuya.)

BAOFU: Tatsuya...There's one thing I forgot to tell you...There are good
things even when you become an adult...Just a few...

TATSUYA: Yeah...I know...

(Tatsuya splits into two.)

KATSUYA: Tatsuya...!

ULALA: Tatsuya...!

MAYA: .........

TATSUYA FROM THE OTHER SIDE: We are connected by this ocean. We
can...meet again...

(Tatsuya from the Other Side disappears and Tatsuya from This Side falls
on the floor.)


The spectre has returned to the deep corners of the subconscious, so too
has her love, retreated to a world beyond her reach. The city is showing
signs of recovery...but many will never know the truth of what happened.
Nonetheless, what Tatsuya left behind will live on in the hearts of the
people.  At least that's what I want to believe...I want to see his fire
in their hearts...

*ENDING*

KISMET: EDITORIAL ROOM

(Maya is sitting at her desk and the cub reporter walks up to her.)

CUB REPORTER: Miss Amano, the chief is calling you.

(Maya gets up.)

CUB REPORTER: Miss Amano...

CUB REPORTER: I'm gonna keep working here a bit longer...After looking
at you, I thought I could work harder too...I don't know how to say it,
but I'll work hard!...This is my fate!

MAYA: ........

(Maya walks off.)


MIKI'S GRAVE

(Baofu is shown standing there.)

KAORU: Sorry...Miki...Everyone's looking for someone these days...It's
time for me to move on...I took down the sign...I won't be chasing
rumors anymore...I'm starting a search agency for missing people...Heh,
after what just took place, we're doing okay. Well, I'm starting all
over again...So "he" won't laugh at me...

(A car honk is heard.)

KAORU: My partner beckons once again...

(Ulala appears.)

ULALA: Kaoru, we should get going. Our client might start complaining...

KAORU: Yeah, I got it.

(Baofu/Kaoru walks away.)

ULALA: Miki...I'll take care of him...so don't worry...

(A car honk is heard and Ulala walks off.)


PARABELLUM

NATE: Indeed..Do they know the meaning of being punctual?

ELLEN: (snicker)...Don't worry, they'll be here. By the way...I read
your dissertation on economics. It was brilliant.

NATE: Hmph...Of course it was.

NATE: But thanks to him, we can go on with our lives.

ELLEN: It's...ironic, isn't it...His appearence is the same...but I
can't believe he doesn't remember anything...

NATE: The same...with Jun Kashihara and the rest...Imagine not
remembering being the key to saving this world...

ELLEN: Hey...Nate...Do you think...he...they...don't actually
remember...?

NATE: I'm not sure...But I know that there are two things for
certain...Praying for the people's sake isn't wrong. And...we have an
obligation to lead this world properly...This world which he saved.

ELLEN: You're right...

(Mary, Brad, Yuki, and Chris come inside.)

BRAD: Yo! I saw the cover, Ellen! That's great!

YUKI: Shunsuke praised you about having a great smile. Now Ellen can
stand on her own!

MARY: I have an announcement!!! Chris is getting married!!! And she's
cute, too!! Congratulations!!!

CHRIS: W, Well, her house collasped, y'know...B, Besides...we already
decided the name...! If it's a boy, "Takashi"..Good name, huh!?

NATE: Yeah...It's a good name...

(The characters start talking until someone comes through the door. This
person however is not shown. Ellen and Mary go up to greet this person.)

ELLEN / MARY: Welcome back...


ARAYA SHRINE

(Eikichi is standing alone and Jun comes up.)

JUN: What is the leader doing here...?

EIKICHI: I don't know...But...I felt that I left behind a very important
memory here...

JUN: Me, too...

LISA: You guys, too...

(Lisa walks up.)

LISA: Somehow...I'm very sad...

EIKICHI: Yeah...

JUN: I feel a great void in my heart...


EBISU BEACH

(Tatsuya is there alone and he flicks his lighter. Katsuya walks up to
him.)

KATSUYA: What do you want, calling me here...?

TATSUYA FROM THIS SIDE: .........

(Tatsuya lights Katsuya's cigarette and Katsuya starts smoking.)

KATSUYA: ...That's rare. I think it's gonna start raining.

TATSUYA FROM THIS SIDE: ...My hand moved on its own.

KATSUYA: .........

TATSUYA FROM THIS SIDE: .........

TATSUYA FROM THIS SIDE: Hey...Bro...Is it hard to become a detective?

KATSUYA: .........

TATSUYA FROM THIS SIDE: ...Won't Pops...get upset...?

KATSUYA: Yeah right...Alright, I'll teach you the ways of a detective...

TATSUYA FROM THIS SIDE: You started up smoking again...

KATSUYA: Yeah...With all that's happened... (Katsuay and Tatsuya walk
off together.)

KATSUYA: Listen up, a detective is...


(An FMV plays of Sumaru City. It is now surrounded by water (where the
Torifune walls used to be.) Maya is standing at a crosswalk and a
familliar golden butterfly is watching her.  As Maya crosses the
street, she stops when she sees Tatsuya in a helmet on his motorylce.
The golden butterfly flies away. Maya shakes her head and walks across
the street while passing in front of Tatsuya. When Maya crosses
the street, Tatsuya and the other cars drive away. Maya is then shown up
close smiling with her mouth closed.)

THE ENDEmbed Ulayaw Ulayaw Elise Ryen sleep