5 ContributorsLawrence of Arabia Screenplay LyricsLAWRENCE OF ARABIA




Columbia Pictures presents
the SAM SPIEGEL - DAVID LEAN Production

Lawrence of Arabia


With

ALEC GUINNESS - ANTHONY QUINN - JACK HAWKINS

JOSE FERRER - ANTHONY QUAYLE - CLAUDE RAINS

ARTHUR KENNEDY

and

OMAR SHARIF as Ali

PETER O'TOOLE as Lawrence

SCREENPLAY BY: ROBERT BOLT

PRODUCED BY: SAM SPIEGEL

DIRECTED BY: DAVID LEAN

A HORIZON FILM IN TECHNICOLOR

PHOTOGRAPHY IN SUPER PANAVISION 70

LAWRENCE OF ARABIA




BRIGHTON
He was the most extraordinary man I ever
knew.

VICAR
Did you know him well?

BRIGHTON
I knew him.

VICAR
Well, 'nil nais ibonam', but did he
really deserve a place in here?
REPORTER
Lord Allenby, could you give me a few
words about Colonel Lawrence?

ALLENBY
What, more words? The revolt in the
desert played a decisive part in the
Middle-Eastern Campaign.

REPORTER
Yes, sir. But about Colonel Lawrence
himself?

ALLENBY
No, I didn't know him well, you know.

REPORTER
Eh, Mr Bentley. You must know as much
about Colonel Lawrence as anybody does.

BENTLEY
Yes. It was my privilege to know him, and
to make him known to the world. He was a
poet, a scholar, and a mighty warrior.

REPORTER
Thank you.
BENTLEY
He was also the most shameless
exhibitionist since Barnum and Bailey.

MAN
You, sir. Who are you?

BENTLEY
My name is Jackson Bentley.

MAN
Well, whoever you are, I overheard your
last remark and I take the gravest
possible exception. He was a very great
man.

BENTLEY
Did you know him?

MAN
No, sir. I can't claim to have known him.
I once had the honour to shake his hand
in Damascus.

MURRAY
Knew him? No, I never knew him. He had
some minor function on my staff in Cairo.

(Cairo)


LAWRENCE
Michael George Hartley. This is a nasty,
dark little room.

HARTLEY
That's right.

LAWRENCE
We are not happy in it.

HARTLEY
I am. It's better than a nasty, dark
little trench.

LAWRENCE
Then, you're a big noble fellow.

HARTLEY
That's right.

LAWRENCE
Ah! Here is William Potter with my
newspaper.

POTTER
Here you are, Tosh!

LAWRENCE
Thanks. Would you care for one of
Corporal Hartley's cigarettes?

POTTER
Ta. Is it there?

LAWRENCE
Of course. Headlines, but I bet it isn't
mentioned in The Times. "Bedouin tribes
attack Turkish stronghold", and I bet
that no one in this whole headquarters
even knows it happened, or cared if it
did. Allow me to ignite your cigarette.

MESSENGER
Sir. Mr Lawrence?

LAWRENCE
Yes?

FLIMSEY
Flimsey, sir.

LAWRENCE
Thank you.

HARTLEY
You'll do that once too often; it's only
flesh and blood!

LAWRENCE
Michael George Hartley, you're a
philosopher.

HARTLEY
And you're balmy!

POTTER
Ow! It damn well hurts.

LAWRENCE
Certainly, it hurts!

POTTER
Well, what's the trick then?

LAWRENCE
The trick, William Potter, is not minding
that it hurts.

LAWRENCE
Oh, by the way. If Captain Gibbon should
inquire for me, tell him I've gone for a
chat with the General.

POTTER
He's balmy!

HARTLEY
He's all right.


FREDDY
Lawrence!

LAWRENCE
Yes?

FREDDY
You're supposed to be... Do you usually
wear your cap in the mess?

LAWRENCE
Oh, yes.

FREDDY
You're supposed to be on duty, aren't
you? Where are you going?

LAWRENCE
Mustn't talk shop, Freddy. Not in the
mess. Matter of fact I'm going for a
'powwow' with the General.

FREDDY
I'm not asking as a superior; I'm asking
as the secretary of this mess. We don't
want chaps in here who should be on duty.

ORDERLY
Where are you going, please?

FREDDY
I must say! Lawrence!

LAWRENCE
Sorry!

FREDDY
You're a clown, Lawrence.

LAWRENCE
Ah well, we can't all be lion-tamers...
Sorry!

MURRAY
It's an intrigue, Dryden, and I do not
propose to let an over-wheeling,
finicking, crass lieutenant thumb his
nose at his general officer commanding
and get away with it.

DRYDEN
He doesn't sound as though he'd be any
great loss, sir.

MURRAY
Now, don't try that, Dryden. There's a
principle involved.

DRYDEN
There is, indeed. He's of no use here in
Cairo; he might be in Arabia. He knows
his stuff, sir.

MURRAY
Knows the books, you mean. I've already
sent out Colonel Brighton, who's a
soldier, and if Brighton thinks we should
send them some small arms, then we will.
What more do you want?

DRYDEN
There would be no question of Lieutenant
Lawrence giving military advice, sir.

MURRAY
By God, I should hope not!

DRYDEN
It's just that the Arab Bureau would like
its own man on the spot, sir, to eh...

MURRAY
To what?

DRYDEN
...to make our own appraisal of the
situation.

MURRAY
I may as well tell you it's my considered
opinion, and that of my staff, that any
time spent on the Bedouin will be time
wasted. They're a nation of sheep-
stealers.

DRYDEN
They did attack Medina.

MURRAY
Well, the Turks made mincemeat of them.

DRYDEN
We don't know that, sir.

MURRAY
We know they didn't take it. A storm in a
tea-cup, Dryden; a side-show. Do you want
my own opinion? This whole theatre of
operations is a side-show. The real war's
being fought against the Germans, not the
Turks, and not here but on the Western
Front, in the trenches. Your Bedouin
army, or whatever it calls itself, would
be a side-show of a side-show.

DRYDEN
Big things have small beginnings, sir.

MURRAY
Does the Arab Bureau want a 'big thing'
in Arabia? If they rise against the
Turks, does the Bureau think they're
going to sit down quietly under us when
they're asked until this war's over?

DRYDEN
The Bureau thinks the job at the moment,
sir, is to win the war.

MURRAY
Don't tell me my duties, Dryden!

OFFSCREEN
Lawrence, sir.

MURRAY
Send him in!

LAWRENCE
Good morning, sir.

MURRAY
Salute! If you're insubordinate of me,
Lawrence, I shall put you under arrest.

LAWRENCE
It's my manner, sir.

MURRAY
Your what?

LAWRENCE
My manner, sir. It looks insubordinate,
but it isn't really.

MURRAY
No, I can't make out whether you're
bloody bad-mannered, or just half-witted.

LAWRENCE
I have the same problem, sir.

MURRAY
Shut up!

LAWRENCE
Yes, sir.

MURRAY
Now, the Arab Bureau seem to think you
would be of some use to them in Arabia.
Why? I can't imagine! You don't seem able
to perform your present duties properly.

LAWRENCE
I cannot fiddle, but I can make a great
state from a little city.

MURRAY
What!

LAWRENCE
Themistocles, sir. A Greek philosopher.

MURRAY
I know you've been well educated,
Lawrence. It says so in your dossier.
You're the kind of creature I can't
stand, Lawrence, but I suppose I could be
wrong. All right, Dryden, you can have
him for six weeks. Who knows? Might even
make a man of him. Come in. Yes? What is
it, Hallon?

HALLON
Navy signal, sir. the convoy will be in
Port Said tomorrow night.

MURRAY
Is that certain?

HALLON
Yes, sir. There doesn't seem to be any
artillery, sir.

MURRAY
But there must be artillery!

DRYDEN
Sir, this is something of an expedition.
He has to get to Yenbo, find a guide,
find the Arabs, and then get back. He
can't do that in six weeks.

MURRAY
Two months, then.

DRYDEN
Three.

MURRAY
All right. Three. Now, will you let me do
some work, Mr Dryden.

DRYDEN
Thank you, sir.

LAWRENCE
I'd like to say, sir, that I am grateful
for this...

MURRAY
Shut up and get out!

LAWRENCE
Sir!

MURRAY
How can I fight a bloody war without
bloody artillery!

LAWRENCE
How did you do it. sir?

DRYDEN
You might better ask why I bothered to.

LAWRENCE
Because I'm the man for the job.

DRYDEN
I just wonder about that

LAWRENCE
Of course I'm the man for the job. What
is the job, by the way?

DRYDEN
Find Prince Feisal.

LAWRENCE
Good. And when I've found him?

DRYDEN
Find out what kind of man he is; find out
what his intentions are. I don't mean his
immediate intentions. That's of Colonel
Brighton's business, not yours. I mean,
his intentions in Arabia altogether.

LAWRENCE
Oh! That's new. Where are they now?

DRYDEN
Anywhere within three hundred miles of
Medina. They're Hasami Bedouins. They can
cross sixty miles of desert in a day.

LAWRENCE
Oh, thanks, Dryden. This is going to be
fun.

DRYDEN
Lawrence, only two kinds of creature get
fun of the desert: Bedouins and gods, and
you're neither. Take it from me; for
ordinary men, it's a burning, fiery
furnace.

LAWRENCE
No, Dryden. It's going to be fun.

DRYDEN
It is recognised that you have a funny
sense of fun.
TAFAS
Here, you may drink. One cup.

LAWRENCE
You do not drink?

TAFAS
No.

LAWRENCE
I'll drink when you do.

TAFAS
I am Bedu.


TAFAS
Truly, now, you are a British Officer?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

TAFAS
From Cairo?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

TAFAS
You did not ride from Cairo?

LAWRENCE
No. Thank Heavens. It's nine hundred
miles; I came by boat.

TAFAS
And before? From Britain?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

TAFAS
Truly?

LAWRENCE
From Oxfordshire.

TAFAS
Is that a desert country?

LAWRENCE
No; a fat country; fat people.

TAFAS
You are not fat?

LAWRENCE
No. I'm different... Here, take it.

TAFAS
First, I take you to Lord Feisal, then
you give it to me.

LAWRENCE
Take it now.

TAFAS
Bedu food.

LAWRENCE
Good.

TAFAS
More...Bedu!

LAWRENCE
Where?

TAFAS
From here to Lord Feisal's camp is Harif
country.

LAWRENCE
Yes, I know.

TAFAS
I am not Harif.

LAWRENCE
No. Hasimi of the Beni Salim.

TAFAS
Put the right foot in tight. Lock it with
your left foot. Then, when you're ready
to go, hit her on the shoulder and say,
'Hut, hut, hut!'

LAWRENCE
Hut, hut, hut!

TAFAS
Ah, today will be difficult, but tomorrow
good riding...  I think we reach Mastura
Well tomorrow. Yes? And from Mastura Well
to Lord Feisal's camp one day more. Now!

At the Harif Well

TAFAS
Good?

LAWRENCE
It's all right.

TAFAS
This is a Harif well. The Harif are a
dirty people.

LAWRENCE
Turks?

TAFAS
Bedu!

LAWRENCE
Who is he?... Tafas!

ALI
He's dead.

LAWRENCE
Yes. Why?

ALI
This is my well.

LAWRENCE
I have drunk from it.

ALI
You are welcome.

LAWRENCE
He was my friend.

ALI
That!

LAWRENCE
Yes. That.

ALI
This pistol yours?

LAWRENCE
No, his.

ALI
His?

LAWRENCE
Mine.

ALI
Then I will use it. Your friend was a
Hasami of the Beni Salim.

LAWRENCE
I know.

ALI
I am Ali of El Karish.

LAWRENCE
I've heard of you.

ALI
So, what was a Hasami doing here?

LAWRENCE
He was taking me to help Prince Feisal.

ALI
You have been sent from Cairo.

LAWRENCE
Yes.

ALI
I have been in Cairo for my schooling. I
can both read and write. My Lord Feisal
already has an Englishman.

LAWRENCE
Yes.

ALI
What is your name?

LAWRENCE
My name is for my friends. None of my
friends is a murderer.

ALI
You are angry, English. He was nothing.
The well is everything. The Hasami may
not drink at our wells. He knew that.
Salaam. Hut, hut, hut.

LAWRENCE
Sherif Ali. So long as the Arabs fight
tribe against tribe, so long will they be
a little people; a silly people; greedy,
barbarous, and cruel, as you are.

ALI
Come. I will take you to Feisal.

LAWRENCE
I do not want your company, Sherif.

ALI
Wadi Safra is another day from here. You
will not find it, and not finding it, you
will die.

LAWRENCE
I will find it with this.

ALI
Good army compass. How if I take it?

LAWRENCE
Then you would be a thief.

ALI
Have you no fear, English?

LAWRENCE
My fear is my concern.

ALI
Truly. God be with you, English.


LAWRENCE
As I walk along the Bois Bou-long,
With an independent air,
You can here the girls declare,
'He must be a millionaire,
You can rum-ti-tum-ti-tum-ti-tum,
Ti-tuddely-tun-ti-tun-ti-tun,
I'm the man who broke the bank at
Monte Carlo.

BRIGHTON
Hey! You!...  I've been waiting for you.

LAWRENCE
Did you know I was coming?

BRIGHTON
I knew someone was coming; Feisal told
me.

LAWRENCE
How did he know?

BRIGHTON
Not much happens within fifty miles of
Feisal that Feisal doesn't know, I'll
give him that. No escort?

LAWRENCE
My guide was killed at the Matsra well.

BRIGHTON
Turks?

LAWRENCE
No. An Arab.

BRIGHTON
Bloody savages!

LAWRENCE
This is Wadi Safra, isn't it?

BRIGHTON
Yes, they're over there; now, just a
minute. What's your name and who sent
you?

LAWRENCE
Lawrence. I've been seconded to the Arab
Bureau.

BRIGHTON
Oh. and what are you to do for the Arab
Bureau?

LAWRENCE
Well, it's rather vague, sir. I'm to
appreciate the situation.

BRIGHTON
Well, that won't be difficult. The
situation's bloody awful. The morale, if
ever they had any, which I doubt, the
Turks knocked out of them in front of
Medina with howitzers. They're fading
away by dozens every night. What I want
to say to you is this; that wherever you
are and whoever you're with, you're a
British serving officer, and here's an
order; when we get into that camp you're
to keep your mouth shut. Do you
understand what I'm saying?

LAWRENCE
Yes, sir. I understand what you're
saying.

BRIGHTON
You'll make your appreciation and get
back to...Oh my God; not again!... I've
told him; God knows I've told him. 'Move
south', I've said, 'You're still in
range'. They simply will not understand
what modern weapons do.


FEISAL
Stand and fight! Stand and fight! Fire
back at them!...  Who are you?

BRIGHTON
Lieutenant Lawrence, sir. Seconded to the
Arab Bureau. This is a bloody mess, sir,
we'll have to move south.

FEISAL
Yes, yes, Colonel; fifty miles south. You
were right and I was wrong. We must take
some thought for the wounded.

BRIGHTON
Well, we can take care of them at Yenbo,
sir.

FEISAL
If they get to Yenbo.

BRIGHTON
Well, they can hardly come with us, sir.

FEISAL
No, they must try to reach Yenbo.
Lieutenant, eh..

LAWRENCE
Lawrence.

FEISAL
You understand, Lieutenant Lawrence, my
people are unused to explosives and
machines. First the guns, and now this.


DAUD
Cigarette?

LAWRENCE
I'm sorry.

SOLDIER
Eh?

DAUD
Cigarette, Your Excellency?

SOLDIER
Hump off!

DAUD
Please, Your Excellency. Just one for
two?

BRIGHTON
Hold it, Jenkins! Jenkins! Jenk...!
Jenkins!

MAJID
'Aurens?

LAWRENCE
'Aurens!

MAJID
'Aurens, you have no servant.

LAWRENCE
I don't need a servant.

DAUD
No? We can do everything. Light fires;
cook food; wash clothes.

FERRAJ
Yes, everything.

LAWRENCE
I don't doubt it.

DAUD
It will be very nice for you...

LAWRENCE
I can't afford it.


SILIAM
Recite, then, as much of the Koran as may
be easy to you. God knoweth that there be
some among you sick while others travel
through the Earth in quest for the
bounties of God; others do battle in his
cause; recite, therefore, as much as may
be easy and observe the prayers; this
will be best and richest in the
recompense. Seek ye the forgiveness of
God; verily, God is forgiving, merciful.

FEISAL
Greetings, Ali.

ALI
My lord.

BRIGHTON
Sherif Ali.

FEISAL
Lieutenant Lawrence, you have met Sherif
Ali, I think.

LAWRENCE
Yes, my lord.

FEISAL
And now, Siliam, the brightness.

SILIAM
By the noon-day brightness, by the light
when it darkeneth; thy Lord hath not
forsaken thee; neither hath he been
displeased...

FEISAL
...and surely the future will be better
for thee than the past...

LAWRENCE
...And in the end shall your Lord be
bounteous to thee and thou be satisfied.

FEISAL
So...? Yes, Colonel?

BRIGHTON
I want a decision, sir.

FEISAL
You want me to fall back on Yenbo.

BRIGHTON
Well, you're not doing much good here,
sir. I'm sorry to rub it in, sir, but we
can't supply you here.

FEISAL
You could supply us through Aqaba.

BRIGHTON
Aqaba! Well, if you can get hold of
Aqaba, sir, of course we can supply you,
but you can't.

FEISAL
You could.

BRIGHTON
You mean the Navy? The Turks have twelve-
inch guns at Aqaba, sir; can you imagine
what that means?

FEISAL
Yes, I can imagine.

BRIGHTON
Well, put that out of your mind, sir. The
Navy's got other things to do.

FEISAL
Oh, yes. Protecting the Suez Canal.

BRIGHTON
The one essential sector of this front is
and must be the Canal. You can see that,
sir, surely.

FEISAL
I see that the Canal is an essential
British interest; it is of little
consequence to us.

BRIGHTON
I must ask you not to speak like that,
sir. British and Arab interests are one
and the same.

FEISAL
Possibly.

ALI
Ha! Ha!

BRIGHTON
Upon my word, sir, you're ungrateful.
Fall back on Yenbo and we will give you
equipment; give you arms, advice,
training, everything!

FEISAL
Guns?

BRIGHTON
A modern rifle for every man.

FEISAL
No, guns! Artillery! Guns like the
Turkish guns at Medina.

ALI
Yes. Give us guns and keep the training.

BRIGHTON
Your men need training far more then
guns, sir.

ALI
The English will teach the Bedu to fight?

BRIGHTON
We will teach them, Sherif Ali, to fight
a modern, mechanised army.

FEISAL
Yes, Lieutenant? What do you think about
Yenbo?

LAWRENCE
I think it is far from Damascus.

BRIGHTON
We'll have you in Damascus and never
fear.

FEISAL
Have you been in Damascus, Mr Lawrence?

LAWRENCE
Yes, my lord.

FEISAL
It is beautiful, is it not?

LAWRENCE
Very.

BRIGHTON
That'll do, Lawrence. Dreaming won't get
you to Damascus, sir, but discipline
will. Look, sir, Great Britain is a small
country; it's much smaller than yours; a
small population compared with some; it's
small but it's great, and why?

ALI
Because it has guns!

BRIGHTON
Because it has discipline!

FEISAL
Because it has a navy; because of this,
the English go where they please and
strike where they please and this makes
them great.

LAWRENCE
Right.

BRIGHTON
Mr Lawrence, that will do! Lieutenant
Lawrence, sir, is not your military
adviser.

FEISAL
But I would like to hear his opinion.

BRIGHTON
Damn it, Lawrence! Who do you take your
orders from?

SILIAM
From Lord Feisal in Feisal's tent.

ALI
Old fool! Why turn from him to him; they
are master and man!

LAWRENCE
My lord, I think... I think your book is
right. The desert is an ocean in which no
oar is dipped and on this ocean the Bedu
go where they please and strike where
they please. This is the way the Bedu
have always fought. You're famed
throughout the world for fighting in this
way and this is the way you should fight
now!

BRIGHTON
Well, I don't know.

LAWRENCE
I'm sorry, sir, but you're wrong. Fall
back on Yenbo, sir, and the Arab Rising
become's one poor unit in the British
Army.

FEISAL
What is this to you?

BRIGHTON
Lawrence, do you know you're a traitor?

FEISAL
No, no, Colonel, eh... he is a young man
and young men are passionate, but they
must say their say, but wiser people must
decide, I know you are right.

BRIGHTON
Very well, sir, once we move; the sooner
the better, you'll lose another fifty men
tonight.

FEISAL
You tread heavily, but you speak the
truth. I will give you my answer
tomorrow, now it is late... Colonel
Brighton means to put my men under
European officers, does he not?

LAWRENCE
In effect, my lord, yes.

FEISAL
And I must do it because the Turks have
European guns, but I fear to do it; upon
my soul, I do. The English have a great
hunger for desolate places. I fear they
hunger for Arabia

FEISAL
Then you must deny it to them.

FEISAL
You are an Englishman. Are you not loyal
to England?

LAWRENCE
To England and to other things.

FEISAL
To England and Arabia, both? And is that
possible? I think you are another of
these desert-loving English. Doughty. Stanhope. Gordon of
Khartoum. No Arab loves the desert. We
love water and green trees. There's
nothing in the desert. No man needs
nothing. Or is it that you think we are
something you can play with? Because we
are little people; a silly people;
greedy, and barbarous, and cruel. Do you
know, Lieutenant, in the Arab city of
C¢rdoba were two miles of public lighting
in the streets when London was a village?

LAWRENCE
Yes, you were great.

FEISAL
Nine centuries ago.

LAWRENCE
Time to be great again, my lord.

FEISAL
Which is why my father made this war upon
the Turks. My father, Mr Lawrence, not
the English. But my father is old and
I...I long for the vanished gardens of
Cordoba. However, before the gardens must
come the fighting. To be great again, it
seems that we need the English, or...

LAWRENCE
...Or?

FEISAL
What no man can provide, Mr Lawrence. We
need a miracle.


LAWRENCE
Aqaba! Aqaba...from the land!

ALI
You are mad! To come to Aqaba by land we
should have to cross the Nefud Desert.

LAWRENCE
That's right.

ALI
The Nefud cannot be crossed.

LAWRENCE
I'll cross it if you will.

ALI
You! It takes more than a compass,
Englishman. The Nefud is the worst place
God created.

LAWRENCE
I can't answer for the place, only for
myself. Fifty men?

ALI
Fifty! Against Aqaba?

LAWRENCE
If fifty men came out of the Nefud, they
would be fifty men other men might join.
The Howitat are there, I hear.

ALI
The Howitat are brigands; they will sell
themselves to anyone.

LAWRENCE
Good fighters, though.

ALI
Good? Yes. There are guns at Aqaba.

LAWRENCE
They face the sea, Sherif Ali, and cannot
be turned round. From the landward side
there are no guns at Aqaba.

ALI
With good reason. It cannot be approached
from the landward side!

LAWRENCE
Certainly the Turks don't dream of it.
Aqaba is over there. It's only a matter
of going.

ALI
You are mad!


FEISAL
And where are you going, lieutenant, with
fifty of my men?

LAWRENCE
To work your miracle.

FEISAL
Blasphemy is a bad beginning for such a
journey.

LAWRENCE
Who told you?

FEISAL
Ali did. Why not you?

LAWRENCE
You are falling back on Yenbo, sir?

ALI
Yes. Yes, I must. But I will spare these
to you. Did Ali break confidence to tell
me?

LAWRENCE
Sherif Ali owes you his allegiance, my
lord.

FEISAL
Yet, you did not tell Colonel Brighton.

LAWRENCE
No. But since you do know, we can claim
to ride in the name of Feisal of Mecca.

FEISAL
Yes, Lieutenant Lawrence, you may claim
it, but in whose name do you ride?


GASIM
Sherif! I caught them. They had tracked
us. They were here. I caught them.

ALI
Why are you here? Boy!

DOUD
To serve lord Aurens, Sherif.

GASIM
This is true, Aurens. They do wish it.

ALI
You have been tracking us. You were told
to stay.

DOUD
No, Sherif. Our camel strayed; we
followed her.

FERRAJ
She led us here to be lord Aurens'
servants. It is the Will of Allah.

ALI
Blasphemy!

LAWRENCE
Don't do that!

GASIM
No, no! Aurens. These are not servants.
These are outcasts. Parentless!

ALI
Be warned! They are not suitable.

LAWRENCE
They sound very suitable. You can ride
with the baggage.

ALI
These are not servants. These are
worshippers!

FERRAJ
Aurens?

LAWRENCE
Hm?

FERRAJ
One shilling...every week.

GASIM
That is fair.

FERRAJ
Each.

GASIM
NO! That is too much!

LAWRENCE
Alright.

GASIM
They will be lucky for you. Allah favours
the compassionate.


ALI
There is the railway...and that is the
desert. From here until the other side;
no water but what we carry: for the
camels; no water at all. If the camels
die, we die. And in twenty days they will
start to die.

LAWRENCE
There's no time to waste, then, is there?


LAWRENCE
I was thinking.

ALI
You were drifting.

LAWRENCE
Yes. It will not happen again.

ALI
Be warned! You were drifting.

LAWRENCE
It will not happen again!


ALI
That water is wasted. From now on we must
travel by night and rest while it is too
hot to travel. A few hours each day.

LAWRENCE
Why don't we start now?

ALI
No. We will rest now. Three hours.

LAWRENCE
Fine. I'll wake you.


LAWRENCE
Do we rest here?

ALI
There is no rest, now, short of water,
Aurens. On the other side of that.

LAWRENCE
And how much of that is there?

ALI
I'm not sure, but however much it must be
crossed before tomorrow's sun gets up.
This is the Sun's Anvil.


LAWRENCE
Have we done it?

SILIAM
No! But we're off the Anvil.

LAWRENCE
Thank God for that, anyway!

SILIAM
Yes. Thank Him! Aurens, I do not think
you know how you have tempted him.

LAWRENCE
I know. We've done it.

ALI
God willing.

LAWRENCE
When do we reach the wells?

ALI
God willing, midday.

LAWRENCE
Then we've done it.

SILIAM
Thank Him, Aurens. Thank Him.

DOUD
Aurens!

ALI
Gasim's!

LAWRENCE
What's happened to him?

ALI
God knows!

LAWRENCE
Why don't you stop?

ALI
For what? He will be dead by midday!

LAWRENCE
We must go back.

ALI
What for? To die with Gasim? In one hour
comes the sun. In God's name, understand!
We cannot go back!

LAWRENCE
I can! Take the boy!

ALI
If you go back, you kill yourself, is
all! Gasim you have killed already.

LAWRENCE
Get out of my way!

ALI
Gasim's time is come, Aurens. It is
written.

LAWRENCE
Nothing is written!

ALI
Go back, then! What did you bring us here
for with your blasphemous conceit! Hey?
English blasphemer! Aqaba? Was it Aqaba?
You will not be at Aqaba, English! Go
back, blasphemer, but you will not be at
Aqaba!

LAWRENCE
I shall be at Aqaba; that is written...in
here.

ALI
English!!! English!!!


LAWRENCE
Nothing is written.

GASIM
Aurens?

GASIM
Aurens?

ALI
El Aurens?

LAWRENCE
Ferraj. Wash!


ALI
Ferraj. El Aurens, truly for some men
nothing is written unless they write it.

LAWRENCE
Not 'El' Aurens; just Aurens.

ALI
El Aurens is better

LAWRENCE
True.

ALI
Your father, too, just Mr Lawrence.

LAWRENCE
My father is Sir Thomas Chapman.

ALI
Is that a lord?

LAWRENCE
A kind of lord.

ALI
And when he dies, you too will be a lord.

LAWRENCE
No.

ALI
Ah, you have an elder brother.

LAWRENCE
No.

ALI
But, then? I do not understand this. Your
father's name is Chapman...

LAWRENCE
Ali, he didn't marry my mother.

ALI
I see.

LAWRENCE
I'm sorry.

ALI
It seems to me that you are free to
choose your own name, then.

LAWRENCE
Yes. I suppose I am.

ALI
El Aurens is best.

LAWRENCE
Alright. I'll settle for 'El Aurens'.


ALI
They are the robes of a Sherif of the
Beni Wadji.

LAWRENCE
Very fine. A great honour.

ONLOOKER
The honour is to us. Salaam, Sherif.

LAWRENCE
Is it permitted?

ALI
Surely.

LAWRENCE
Salaam.

CROWD
Salaam.

SILIAM
He for whom nothing is written may write
himself a                 , salaam.

ALI
They are good for riding. Try!


AUDAR
What are you doing, Englishman?

LAWRENCE
As you see. Are you alone?

AUDAR
Almost. Are you with that party of dogs
who are drinking at my well?

LAWRENCE
Yours?

AUDAR
I am Audar Abu Tayi.

LAWRENCE
I've heard of another man of that name.

AUDAR
Other? What other?

LAWRENCE
The Audar I'd heard of wouldn't need
someone's help to look after his wells.

AUDAR
Ah. He must be a great hero.

LAWRENCE
He is. He wouldn't refuse water to men
coming out of the great Nefud Desert.

AUDAR
Now, would he not? Hm. No, that must be
some other man. Here is my help.  Son,
what fashion is this?

SON
Harif, father.

AUDAR
What manner of Harif?

SON
A Beni Wadji Sherif.

AUDAR
And is he Harif?

SON
No, father. English!

AUDAR
Son! They are stealing our water; tell
them we're coming. Tell them!... Empty
that!

ALI
Do not!!

AUDAR
It is Audar of the Howitat who speaks.

ALI
It is Ali of the Harif who answers.

AUDAR
Harif? Ali, does your father still steal?

ALI
No. Does Audar take me for one of his own
bastards?

AUDAR
No, there is no resemblance. Alas, you
resemble your father.

ALI
Audar flatters me.

AUDAR
You're easily flattered. I knew your
father well.

ALI
Did you know your own?

LAWRENCE
Auda! We are fifty, you are two. How if
we shot you down?

AUDAR
Why, then you have a blood feud with the
Howitat. Do you desire it?

LAWRENCE
Not the generals in Cairo, nor the Sultan
himself desire that. Call off your men.

AUDAR
No, no, boy. This honours the unworthy.
I've only just begun to teach him.

LAWRENCE
And what are you teaching him today?
Howitat hospitality?

AUDAR
Be not clever with me, English! Who is
he?

LAWRENCE
A friend of Prince Feisal's.

AUDAR
Oh. So, you desire my hospitality.

LAWRENCE
Yes.

AUDAR
Is he your tongue?

ALI
We do desire it.

AUDAR
Ugh. Then, it is given, if you will take
it. I am at my summer camp; a poor place.
Well, to me it seems a poor place. Some
men find it marvellous. Tomorrow, maybe,
I will allow the Turks to buy you,
friends of Feisal. But, dine with me.
Dine with Auda, English; dine with the
Howitat, Harif. It is my pleasure that
you dine with me in Wadi Ram.

In Auda's tent

AUDAR
This thing you work against Aqaba, what
profit do you hope from it?

ALI
We work it for Feisal of Mecca. The Harif
do not work for profit.

AUDAR
Well, if a man was meant to be a servant,
Ali, he could find worse masters than
Feisal, but I...I cannot serve.

LAWRENCE
You permit the Turks to stay in Aqaba.

AUDAR
Yes, it is my pleasure.

LAWRENCE
We do not work this thing for Feisal.

AUDAR
No? For the English, then?

LAWRENCE
For the Arabs.

AUDAR
The Arabs. The Howitat, Ajili, Rala, Beni
Saha; these I know, I have even heard of
the Harif, but the Arabs! What tribe is
that?

LAWRENCE
They're a tribe of slaves; they serve the
Turks.

AUDAR
Well, they are nothing to me. My tribe is
the Howitat...

ALI
Who work only for profit.

AUDAR
Who work at Auda's pleasure.

LAWRENCE
And Auda's pleasure is to serve the
Turks.

AUDAR
Serve. I serve?

LAWRENCE
It is the servant who takes money.

AUDAR
I am Audar Abu Tayi! Does Audar serve?

CROWD
No!

AUDAR
Does Audar Abu Tayi serve?

CROWD
No!! Ha! Ha! Ha!

AUDAR
I carry twenty-three great wounds, all
got in battle. Seventy-five men have I
killed with my own hands in battle. I
scatter, I burn my enemies tents. I take
away their flocks and herds. The Turks
pay me a golden treasure. Yet, I am poor,
because I  am a river to my people! Is
that service?

LAWRENCE
No.

SILIAM
And yet now it seems Audar has grown old
and lost his taste for fighting.

AUDAR
It is well you say it in my tent, thou
old tulip!

ALI
Yet, this is a tulip that the Turks could
not buy.

AUDAR
Why should they wish to? Now! I will tell
you what they pay me, and you will tell
me if this is a servant's wages. They pay
me, month by month, one hundred golden
guineas.

LAWRENCE
One hundred and fifty, Auda.

AUDAR
Who told you that?

LAWRENCE
I have long ears.

AUDAR
And a long tongue between them.

LAWRENCE
A hundred; a hundred and fifty; what
matters? It's a trifle...a trifle which
they take from a great box they have...

ALI
In Aqaba.

AUDAR
In Aqaba!

LAWRENCE
Where else?

AUDAR
You trouble me like women.

LAWRENCE
Friends, we have been foolish. Audar will
not come to Aqaba.

AUDAR
No.

LAWRENCE
For money.

AUDAR
No.

LAWRENCE
For Feisal?

AUDAR
No.

LAWRENCE
Nor to drive away the Turks. He will come
because it is his pleasure.

AUDAR
Thy mother mated with a scorpion.


AUDAR
Make God your agent! Aqaba!

CROWD
Aqaba!

AUDAR
God be with you.


ALI
Yes, Aqaba. Tomorrow, we will go and get
it.

LAWRENCE
Do you think we shall?

ALI
Yes. If you're right about the guns.


AUDAR
He killed: he dies.

ALI
This is the end of Aqaba.

SILIAM
One of our men murdered one of Auda's
men.

LAWRENCE
Why?

SILIAM
Theft? Blood-feud? It makes no matter
why.

LAWRENCE
Ali!

ALI
It is an ancient wound.

LAWRENCE
I didn't come here to watch a tribal
bloodbath.

AUDAR
It is the law, Aurens.

LAWRENCE
The Law says the man must die.

AUDAR
Hm!

LAWRENCE
It he dies, would that content the
Howitat?

AUDAR
Yes.

LAWRENCE
Sherif Ali. If none of lord Auda's men
harms any of yours, will that content the
Harif?

ALI
Yes.

LAWRENCE
Then, I will execute the Law. I have no
tribe and no one is offended. Gasim! Did
you do it?

AUDAR
Well. Aurens. What ails the Englishman?

ALI
That man he killed was the man he brought
out of the Nefud.

AUDAR
Ah, it was written, then. Better to have
left him.

ALI
It was execution, Aurens: no shame in
that. Besides, it was necessary. You gave
life and you took it. The writing is
still yours.

On the beach at Aqaba

ALI
The miracle is accomplished. Garlands for
the conqueror. Tribute for the prince;
flowers for the man.

LAWRENCE
I'm none of those things, Ali.

ALI
What, then?

LAWRENCE
Don't know. Thanks. My God I love this
country. What!

AUDAR
No gold in Aqaba!

MAN
I've found it!

LAWRENCE
That's a pity. Ali. You get a message
down the coast to Yenbo. Tell Feisal to
find boats...any boats, and bring the
Arab army here to Aqaba quickly.

ALI
And you?

LAWRENCE
I'm going to tell the generals in Cairo.
Yes, cross Sinai. Come on!

ALI
Sinai!?

LAWRENCE
Yes!

ALI
With these?

LAWRENCE
They'll be alright with me. Look, Ali. If
any of your Bedouin arrived in Cairo and
said, 'We've taken Aqaba. the generals
would laugh.

ALI
I see. In Cairo you will put off these
funny clothes. You will wear trousers and
tell stories of our quaintness and
barbarity, and then, they will believe
you.

LAWRENCE
You're an ignorant man.

AUDAR
Paper! Paper! There is no gold in Aqaba.
No gold! No great box!

LAWRENCE
Did Audar come to Aqaba for gold?

AUDAR
For my pleasure as you said, but gold is
honourable, and Aurens promised gold.
Aurens lied.

LAWRENCE
See, Auda. The Crown of England promises
to pay five thousand golden guineas
to Audar Abu Tayi, signed in His
Majesty's absence, by...me. In ten days,
I'll be back with the gold. With gold,
with guns, ...with everything.

AUDAR
Ten days. You'll cross Sinai?

LAWRENCE
Why not? Moses did.

AUDAR
And you will take the children?

LAWRENCE
Moses did!

AUDAR
Moses was a prophet and beloved of God.
He said there was gold here: he lied. He
is not perfect.


FERRAJ
Lord, can we not rest?

LAWRENCE
I told you, 'No rest till they know I
hold Aqaba'. Have you two slept in beds?
Ferraj? Doud? With sheets. Tomorrow the
finest sheets in the finest room in the
finest hotel in Cairo, I promise.

MAJID
Then it shall be so, lord.

LAWRENCE
Look! a pillar of fire.

DOUD
No, lord. Dust.


LAWRENCE
My compass! No matter. If we ride west,
we must strike the Canal...


LAWRENCE
Come on!


DOUD
Aurens!! Aurens!!

FERRAJ
Aurens!

LAWRENCE
Ferraj! Ferraj! Don't! Don't! Don't!


FERRAJ
Aurens? Why do you walk? But why, lord?
Aurens! But why, lord? There's room for
both. It serves no purpose...
Aurens! Look!      Aurens!

LAWRENCE
It's all right, Ferraj. It's all right.

FERRAJ
Hey!

MOTORCYCLIST
Who are you? Who are you?

Cairo

FERRAJ
Doud!

SOLDIER
We're here, sir.  You taking him in
there, sir?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

SOLDIER
Here! Here! You! And where the hell do
you think you're going to, Mustafa?

LAWRENCE
Eh, we're thirsty.

SOLDIER
Mr Lawrence, is it?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

SOLDIER
Are you going to the officer's bar, sir?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

SOLDIER
You can't take him in there, sir.

OFFICER
What do you think you look like?

BAR MAN
No, no, you mustn't! Not another! Go
effendi! Go! Get out! You must get out!
Get out!

LAWRENCE
We want two large glasses of lemonade!

BAR MAN
This is a bar for British Officers.

LAWRENCE
That's alright; we're not particular

FREDDY
Lawrence! Are you off your head?

LAWRENCE
No. Oddly enough, I'm not.

OFFICER
Now, look here, Lawrence, just clear out
of here, will you?

CROWD
Go on, Lawrence, clear off! Get that boy
out of here!

OFFICER
Pogo! We'll have this one out, anyway.

CROWD
Get out! Get that wog out of here! Yes,
clear off! Go on, get the little wog out!

BRIGHTON
What's going on?

OFFICER
It's Lawrence, sir.

LAWRENCE
Lemonade with ice.

BRIGHTON
Well, explain yourself.

LAWRENCE
We've taken Aqaba.

BRIGHTON
Taken Aqaba? Who has?

LAWRENCE
We have. Our side in this war have. The
wogs have. We have. He likes your
lemonade.

BRIGHTON
You mean the Turks have gone?

LAWRENCE
No, they're still there, but they've no
boots. Prisoners, sir. We took them
prisoners; the entire garrison. No,
that's not true. We killed some; too many
really. I'll manage it better next time.
There's been a lot of killing, one way or
another. Cross my heart and hope to die,
it's all perfectly true.

BRIGHTON
It isn't possible.

LAWRENCE
Yes, it is. I did it.

BRIGHTON
You'd better talk to Allenby.

LAWRENCE
General Allenby?

BRIGHTON
Yes, He's in command now Murray's gone.

LAWRENCE
Well, that's a step in the right
direction. First I want a room, with a
bed, with sheets.

BRIGHTON
Yes, yes, of course.

LAWRENCE
It's for him.

BRIGHTON
Right! You want a bed yourself, don't
you?

LAWRENCE
See Allenby first, though. Will he see
me?

BRIGHTON
I think so.

LAWRENCE
Do that then. I'd better shave

BRIGHTON
Yes, you had. You'd better get into some
trousers too.


ALLENBY
Undisciplined...unpunctual...untidy...sev
eral languages...knowledge of
music...literature...knowledge
of...knowledge of...you're an interesting
man, there's no doubt about it. Who told
you to take Aqaba?

LAWRENCE
Nobody.

ALLENBY
Sir.

LAWRENCE
Sir.

ALLENBY
Then, why did you?

LAWRENCE
Aqaba's important.

ALLENBY
Why is it important?

LAWRENCE
It's the Turkish route to the Canal.

ALLENBY
Not any more. They're coming through
Bethsheda.

LAWRENCE
I know, but we've gone forward to Gaza.

ALLENBY
So?

LAWRENCE
So that left Aqaba behind your right.

ALLENBY
True.

LAWRENCE
And it will be further behind your right
when you go for Jerusalem.

ALLENBY
Am I going for Jerusalem?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

ALLENBY
Very well. Aqaba behind my right.

LAWRENCE
It threatened El Herish and Gaza.

ALLENBY
Anything else?

LAWRENCE
Yes. Aqaba's linked with Medina.

ALLENBY
Do you think we should shift them out of
Medina now?

LAWRENCE
No. I think you should leave them there.

ALLENBY
You acted without orders, you know?

LAWRENCE
Shouldn't officers use their initiative
at all times?

ALLENBY
Not really. It's awfully dangerous,
Lawrence.

LAWRENCE
Yes. I know.

ALLENBY
Already?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

ALLENBY
I'm promoting you major.

LAWRENCE
I don't think that's a very good idea.

ALLENBY
I didn't ask you; I want you to go
back...and carry on the good work.

LAWRENCE
No, thank you, sir.

ALLENBY
Why not?

LAWRENCE
Well, I...eh, let me see...I killed two
people. I mean two Arabs; one was a boy.
that was... yesterday! I led him into
quicksand. The other was a man; that was
before Aqaba, anyway. I had to execute
him with my pistol. There was something
about it I didn't like.

ALLENBY
Well, naturally...

LAWRENCE
No, something else...

ALLENBY
I see, well, that's all right. We'll give
you a warning.

LAWRENCE
No. Something else.

ALLENBY
What then?

LAWRENCE
I enjoyed it.

ALLENBY
Rubbish! Rubbish! You know that you're
tired. What do you mean by coming here
dressed like that? Amateur theatricals?

LAWRENCE
Oh, yes. Entirely.

ALLENBY
Let me see that hat-thing, or whatever it
is. Fascinating gear they wear. How do
you think I would look in this hat,
Harry?

BRIGHTON
Damn ridiculous, sir.

ALLENBY
Here, you keep it.

LAWRENCE
What I'm trying to say is I don't think
I'm fit for it.

ALLENBY
Really!? What do you think, Dryden?

DRYDEN
Before he did it, sir, I'd have said it
couldn't be done.

ALLENBY
Brighton?

LAWRENCE
I know what he thinks.

BRIGHTON
I think you should recommend a
decoration, sir. I don't think it matters
what his motives were; 'twas a brilliant
bit of soldiering.

ALLENBY
Mr Perkins!

PERKINS
Sah!

ALLENBY
Let's have a drink, gentlemen.

PERKINS
Sah!

ALLENBY
You've heard about this, Mr Perkins.

PERKINS
Yes, sir.

ALLENBY
What do you think about it?

PERKINS
Bloody marvellous, sir. Well done, sir.

ALLENBY
Thank you, Mr Perkins.

PERKINS
Sah!

ALLENBY
Come on, then.

LAWRENCE
You're a clever man, sir.

ALLENBY
No, but I know a good thing when I see
one. That's fair, surely.  Look here,
lad. If I'm going to break through to
Jerusalem, I must concentrate not
dissipate...

LAWRENCE
Guns.

ALLENBY
Do you know of better?...

ALLENBY
I fight like Clausewitz, you fight like Saxe.

LAWRENCE
We shall do very well, indeed, sir.


ALLENBY
Easy, gentlemen, please. Will you give us
something to drink? Waiter    Of course,
sir.

ALLENBY
I'm here at the invitation of Major
Lawrence. Tracy. Shall we go outside?
So, you'll hold down the Turkish desert
army.

LAWRENCE
Yes.

ALLENBY
With a thousand Arabs?

LAWRENCE
A thousand Arabs means a thousand knives,
delivered anywhere, day or night...means
a thousand camels; that means a thousand
packs of high explosive and a thousand
crack rifles. We can cross Arabia while
Johnny Turk is still turning round. I'll
smash his railways, and while he's
mending them I'll smash them somewhere
else. In thirteen weeks I can have Arabia
in chaos.

ALLENBY
You are going back then?

LAWRENCE
Yes, of course I'm going back.

ALLENBY
Well, if we can see it, so can the Turk.
If he finds he's using four divisions to
fend off a handful of bandits, he'll
withdraw.

LAWRENCE
He daren't withdraw. Arabia's part of his
empire: if he gets out now, he knows
he'll never get back again.

BRIGHTON
I wonder who will.

LAWRENCE
No one will. Arabia's for the Arabs now.
That's what I've told them, anyway.
That's what they think: that's why
they're fighting.

ALLENBY
Oh, surely.

LAWRENCE
They've only one suspicion, if we'll let
them drive the Turks out and then move in
ourselves. I've told them that that's
false: that we've no ambitions in Arabia,
have we?

ALLENBY
I'm not a politician, thank God. have we
any ambition in Arabia, Dryden?

DRYDEN
Difficult question, sir.

LAWRENCE
I want to know, sir, if I can tell them
in your name that we have no ambitions in
Arabia.

ALLENBY
Certainly.

LAWRENCE
Two thousand small arms is not enough: I
need five.

ALLENBY
Right.

LAWRENCE
Money. It'll have to be sovereigns: they
don't like paper.

ALLENBY
Right.

LAWRENCE
Instructors for the Lewis guns.

ALLENBY
Right.

LAWRENCE
More money.

ALLENBY
How much more?

LAWRENCE
Twenty-five thousand now: a lot more
later.

ALLENBY
Dryden?

DRYDEN
It can be done, sir.

LAWRENCE
A couple of armoured cars.

ALLENBY
Right.

LAWRENCE
Field artillery.

ALLENBY
Right. I'm going to give you every
blessed thing I can, Major Lawrence,
because I know you'll use it.
Congratulations and thank you. Thank you
for your hospitality, gentlemen.

CROWD
Congratulations.

DRYDEN
Are you really going to give them
artillery, sir?

BRIGHTON
I was wondering that, sir. It might be
deuced difficult to get it back again.

DRYDEN
Give them artillery and you've made them
independent.

ALLENBY
Then, I can't give them artillery, can I?

DRYDEN
For you to say, sir.

ALLENBY
No, it's not. I've got orders to obey,
thank God. Not like that poor devil. He's
riding the whirlwind.

DRYDEN
Let's hope we're not.


BENTLEY
Excuse me, friend. Who do these bags
belong to?

SILIAM
To Prince Feisal.

BENTLEY
You're not Prince Feisal, by any chance.

SILIAM
No.

BENTLEY
You know him, though.

SILIAM
He is my master. I am his servant.

BENTLEY
Em. Can you read?  The Chicago Courier is
my own particular paper, but my work is
syndicated throughout America.

FEISAL
I understood so from your letter, Mr
Bentley.   Now?

BENTLEY
Where can I find Major Lawrence?

FEISAL
Is that what you've come for?

BENTLEY
Not all together, sir, no.

FEISAL
Well, Mr Bentley, you will find Major
Lawrence with my army.

BENTLEY
Well, that's what I meant, sir. Where can
I find your army?

FEISAL
I don't know. Last week they were near El
Hira.

BENTLEY
Gira!

FEISAL
Oh, yes. I fear you have a long journey.
Can you ride a camel?

BENTLEY
I've never tried.

FEISAL
Take a mule. Avoid Malal. The Turks are
there.

BENTLEY
In Malal, now? They move fast.

FEISAL
They do, but not so fast as we do, you
will find.

FEISAL
Myself? I am going to Cairo, as you know.

BENTLEY
Yes.

FEISAL
There is work for me there of a different
kind.

BENTLEY
Yes. I understand you've been given no
artillery.

FEISAL
That is so.

BENTLEY
You're handicapped.

FEISAL
It restricts us to small things.

BENTLEY
It's intended to.

FEISAL
Do you know General Allenby?

BENTLEY
Watch out for Allenby. He's a 'slim
customer'.

FEISAL
Excuse me?

BENTLEY
A clever man.

FEISAL
'Slim customer'. Very good. I will
certainly watch out for him. You're being
very sympathetic, Mr Bentley.

BENTLEY
Your Highness, we Americans were once a
colonial people and we naturally feel
sympathetic to any people, anywhere, who
are struggling for their freedom.

FEISAL
Very gratifying.

BENTLEY
Also, my interests are the same as yours.
You want your story told: I badly want a
story to tell.

FEISAL
Ah, now you are 'talking turkey', are you
not?

BENTLEY
Ha! Ha!

FEISAL
Well, Mr Bentley, I will give you a guide
and a letter, and before I leave
here...Ah, which must be presently, I
will have some facts and figures put on
paper for you. You know, of course, that
we are destroying the Turkish railways?

BENTLEY
I do, sir. Major Lawrence is in charge of
all this, is he?

FEISAL
My army is made up of tribes. The tribes
are led by the tribal leaders.

BENTLEY
Well, your people do think very highly of
Major Lawrence, though.

FEISAL
Oh, yes. And rightly. In this country, Mr
Bentley, the man who gives victory in
battle is prized beyond every other man.
One figure I can give you from my head
because it never leaves my head. Since
starting this campaign four months ago,
we have lost thirty-seven wounded, one
hundred and fifty-six dead. You remark
the disproportion between our dead and
wounded.

BENTLEY
Yeah. Four times as many.

FEISAL
That's because those too badly wounded to
bring away we ourselves kill. We leave no
wounded for the Turks.

BENTLEY
You mean...

FEISAL
I mean we leave no wounded for the Turks.
In their eyes we are not soldiers, but
rebels, and rebels wounded or whole are
not protected by the Geneva Code and are
treated harshly.

BENTLEY
How harshly?

FEISAL
More harshly than I hope you can imagine.

BENTLEY
I see.

FEISAL
Our own prisoners, Mr Bentley, are taken
care of until the British can relieve us
of them according to the Code. I should
like you to notice that.

BENTLEY
Yes, sir. Is that the influence of Major
Lawrence?

FEISAL
Why should you suppose so?

BENTLEY
Well, it's just I heard in Cairo that
Major Lawrence has a horror of bloodshed.

FEISAL
That is exactly so. with Major Lawrence,
mercy is a passion: with me it is merely
good manners. You may judge which motive
is the more reliable. And now, perhaps...

BENTLEY
Oh, sure. Sure. Thank you, sir. Do you
think you'd be able to manage the letter?

FEISAL
I'll do everything I have said, Mr
Bentley, if you will tell me truly the
nature of your interest in my people and
Major Lawrence.

BENTLEY
It's very simple, sir. I'm looking for a
hero.

FEISAL
Indeed? You do not seem a romantic man.

BENTLEY
Oh, no. But certain influential men back
home believe that the time has come for
America to lend her weight to the
patriotic struggle against Germany...and
Turkey. Now, I've been sent to find
material which will show our people that
his war is...

FEISAL
Enjoyable?

BENTLEY
Hardly that, sir. But to show it in its
more adventurous aspects.

FEISAL
You are looking for a figure who will
draw your country towards war.

BENTLEY
Alright. Yes.

FEISAL
Aurens is your man.


LAWRENCE
Stop! Stop it! Stop it! Come on, men!

AUDAR
Aurens!

LAWRENCE
Oh, good God!

BENTLEY
Jimeny! Never seen a man killed with a
sword before.

LAWRENCE
Why don't you take a picture?

BENTLEY
Wish I had.

AUDAR
How is it with thee, Aurens? No! Am I in
this?

LAWRENCE
Did you take his picture?

BENTLEY
Yeah.

AUDAR
You are using up your nine lives very
quickly.

BENTLEY
Charming company you keep.

LAWRENCE
Auda? he's a bit old fashioned. He thinks
these things will steal his virtue. He
thinks you're a kind of thief.

BENTLEY
Is it alright if I take your picture?

LAWRENCE
All right.

BENTLEY
OK. Just walk.

CROWD
Aurens! Aurens!

BENTLEY
Major Lawrence? Yes, sir, that's my baby.


BRIGHTON
This looting has got to stop.

ALI
It is customary.

BRIGHTON
It's theft, and theft makes thieves.

ALI
I would not say that to Auda. It is their
payment, Colonel.

BRIGHTON
Payment!

ALI
Truly, are not British soldiers paid?

BRIGHTON
They don't go home when they're paid.

ALI
They are not free to.

BRIGHTON
Well, there's another lot you've seen the
last of.

LAWRENCE
They'll come back.

BRIGHTON
He says they'll come back. Will they?

ALI
Not this year, Aurens.

BRIGHTON
Look, Lawrence. How many men do you think
you'll have left? Two hundred?

LAWRENCE
Less.

BRIGHTON
Well, then.

LAWRENCE
I said they'll come back.

BRIGHTON
You badly hurt?

LAWRENCE
Not hurt at all. Didn't you know? They
can only kill me with a golden bullet.


ALI
It is for children. I have set myself to
learn again.

BENTLEY
What are you learning from this?

ALI
Politics.

BENTLEY
You gonna be a democracy in this country?
You gonna have a parliament?

ALI
I will tell you that when I have a
country.

BENTLEY
Ha! Ha!...

ALI
Did I answer well?

BENTLEY
You answered without saying anything.
That's politics. You learn quickly.

ALI
I have a good teacher.

BENTLEY
Yeah. Yeah.
How's your hurt?

LAWRENCE
Fine.

BENTLEY
Before I return to the flesh-pots, which
I shall be very glad to do, may I put two
questions to you? Straight?

LAWRENCE
I'd be interested to hear you put a
question straight, Mr Bentley.

BENTLEY
One: What, in your opinion, do these
people hope to gain from this war?

LAWRENCE
They hope to gain their freedom. Freedom.

BENTLEY
They hope to gain their freedom. There's
one born every minute.

LAWRENCE
They're going to get it, Mr Bentley. I'm
going to give it to them. The second
question?

BENTLEY
Oh. Well, I was going to ask...eh; what
is it, Major Lawrence, that attracts you
personally to the desert?

LAWRENCE
It's clean.

BENTLEY
Well, now. That's a very illuminating
answer. May I take one farewell picture?

AUDAR
I gave Math Budad two lamps for it. One
clock for two lamps.

BRIGHTON
A fair bargain.

AUDAR
I robbed him. I must find something
honourable.

BRIGHTON
Honourable?

AUDAR
Yes, the year is running out, Brighton. I
must find something honourable.


AUDAR
Now, you may blow up my train.

BRIGHTON
And what will you do now?

AUDAR
Oh, now I go home. They will carry my
toys. They will carry my toys, too, do
you see?

BRIGHTON
Major Lawrence will campaign this winter,
but you've got what you wanted so you're
going home. Is that it?

AUDAR
Of course! When Aurens has got what he
wants, he will go home. When you have got
what you want, you will go home.

BRIGHTON
Oh, no, I shan't, Auda.

AUDAR
Then you are a fool.

BRIGHTON
Maybe. I am not a deserter.

AUDAR
Give thanks to God, Brighton, that when
he made you a fool, he gave you a fool's
face.

BRIGHTON
You are an impudent rascal!

AUDAR
I must go, Aurens, before I soil myself
with a fool's blood.

BRIGHTON
It's like talking to a brick wall. So,
what'll you do now? What can you do?

LAWRENCE
I'll go north. That's what Allenby wants,
isn't it?

BRIGHTON
Allenby wanted the Arab army behind
Dar'a.

LAWRENCE
Then that's where I'll take it.

LAWRENCE
Tell Allenby to hurry up; that we'll be
in Dar'a before he's in Jerusalem, won't
we?


LAWRENCE
Train! Ferraj.

FERRAJ
Ya! Aurens.
Bedouin   Aii!

LAWRENCE
Hide yourself, my friend.     Detonator.
Alright, fetch another.

FERRAJ
Pardon, Aurens, I put it in...

LAWRENCE
There's plenty of time; fetch another!
Ferraj? Ferraj!

ALI
What happened?

LAWRENCE
Detonator. A detonator.

BEDOUIN
He cannot ride, Aurens. Look.

ALI
If they take him alive, you know what
they will do to him.

FERRAJ
Daud will be angry with you.

LAWRENCE
Salute him for me.


ALI
What will you do now?

LAWRENCE
Go north.

ALI
With twenty?

LAWRENCE
What would you recommend me to do, Ali?
What would you recommend?


BRIGHTON
Well, he hasn't one-tenth so many men,
sir.

ALLENBY
He's lied, in fact.

BRIGHTON
Yes and no. He doesn't claim to have done
anything he hasn't done.

ALLENBY
Then there is an Arab north army?

BRIGHTON
No, sir, he has lied about that.

ALLENBY
Any idea why?

BRIGHTON
It's his army, I suppose.

ALLENBY
It's Prince Feisal's army. Do you think
he's gone native, Harry?

BRIGHTON
No. He would if he could, I think. Not my
line of country this, sir.

ALLENBY
Oh, it doesn't matter; I'm just curious.
What matters is I believed it. The Turks
believe it. They're offering twenty
thousand pounds for him.

BRIGHTON
Good Heavens!

ALLENBY
No. Shouldn't say he'd long to live,
would you?

BRIGHTON
Well, whatever else, sir, he's a brave
man.

ALLENBY
Oh, surely, surely. If he's still going
north with fifty men, he doesn't lack
'guts'. I wonder if they'd offer that
much for me. What about next year? Will
they still come back?

BRIGHTON
I wouldn't be surprised. They think he's
a kind of prophet.

ALLENBY
They do or he does?


ALI
Now, may I speak?

LAWRENCE
Yes.

ALI
Aurens. One more failure, and you will
find yourself alone. I do not include
myself.

LAWRENCE
I do not include the others.

ALI
So, say they love you: the more reason to
be thrifty with them. give them something
to do that can be done. But you? No, no,
they must move mountains for you: they
must walk on water.

LAWRENCE
That's right. That's right! Who are you
to know what can be done. If we'd done
what you thought could be done, we'd be
back in Yenbo now, and nowhere. Whatever
I ask them to do, can be done, that's
all. They know that if you don't. Do you
think I'm just anybody, Ali? Do you?
My friends. Who will walk on water with
me? Who will come with me into Dar'a?

BEDOUIN
Dar'a is garrisoned. Will you take twenty
against two thousand?

LAWRENCE
I'll go by myself if I have to.

BEDOUIN
Why?

LAWRENCE
Because I told the English generals the
Arab revolt will be in Dar'a when they
would be in Jerusalem.

BEDOUIN
Or perhaps you are here for the English
generals.

LAWRENCE
Who says this?

ALI
Rumour.

BEDOUIN
That is not an argument.

LAWRENCE
No argument. This afternoon, I will take
the Arab revolt into Dar'a while the
Arabs argue.

BEDOUIN
Aurens! Can you pass for an Arab in an
Arab town?

LAWRENCE
Yes, if one of you would lend me some
dirty clothes.

Dar'a

ALI
This is madness! What are you looking
for?

LAWRENCE
Some way to announce myself.

ALI
Be patient with him, God.

ALI
Do you not see how they look at you?
Come!

LAWRENCE
Please, Ali. I am invisible.

TURK
Halt!

LAWRENCE
Walk on.

TURK
Halt!

LAWRENCE
Walk on.

TURK
You! And You!

BEY
You.      You have blue eyes? I say you
have blue eyes.

LAWRENCE
Yes, efendi.

BEY
Are you Sicasian?

LAWRENCE
Yes, efendi.

BEY
How old are you?

LAWRENCE
Twenty-seven, efendi. I think.

BEY
You look older. You have had a lot of
experience. It's an interesting face. I'm
surrounded by cattle. He wouldn't know an
interesting face from a sow's belly. I
have been in Dar'a now for three and a
half years. If they'd posted me to the
dark side of the moon, I could not be
more isolated. You haven't the least idea
of what I'm talking about, have you?

LAWRENCE
No, efendi.

BEY
Have you? No. That would be too lucky.
Where did you get that?

LAWRENCE
Oh, eh, it's old, efendi.

BEY
No, no. This is recent. You are a
deserter.

LAWRENCE
No, efendi.

BEY
Yes, you're a deserter, but from which
army? Not that it matters at all. A man
cannot be always in uniform. Your skin is
very fair.      Beat him.


ALI
Sleep. Sleep!       Eat. Eat! You have a
body like other men. Good. Then sleep.


ALI
Better?

LAWRENCE
Much better. You were right.

ALI
Rest, rest. Can you not learn?

LAWRENCE
Oh, I've learned alright. I'm going, Ali.

ALI
Why?

LAWRENCE
Why? Heavens!

ALI
Why?

LAWRENCE
I've come to the end of myself, I
suppose.

ALI
And the end of the Arab revolt?

LAWRENCE
I'm not the Arab revolt, Ali. I'm not
even Arab.

ALI
A man can be whatever he wants, you said.

LAWRENCE
I'm sorry. I thought it was, too.

ALI
You proved it.

LAWRENCE
Look, Ali. Look! That's me. What colour
is it? That's me! And there's nothing I
can do about it.

ALI
A man can do whatever he wants, you said.

LAWRENCE
He can, but he can't want what he wants.
This is the stuff that decides what he
wants. You may as well know, I would have
told them anything; I would have told
them who I am; I would have told them
where you were; I tried to.

ALI
So would any man.

LAWRENCE
Well, any man is what I am and I'm going
back to Allenby to ask him for a job that
any man can do.

ALI
Allenby's in Jerusalem.

LAWRENCE
I'll make easy stages.

ALI
You!

LAWRENCE
Oh, yes. Easy stages. Look, Ali, I think
I see a way of being just ordinarily
happy. Can I take this?

ALI
It is not clean.

LAWRENCE
No, but it's warm.

ALI
And these? Having led them here! Have you
no care for them?

ALI
You'll lead them. They're yours. Trust
your own people and let me go back to
mine.


SOLDIER
I say, don't forget those form fives.

SOLDIER
All right!

LAWRENCE
Hey? Mind if I join you?

OFFICER
Oh. Honoured, sir.

LAWRENCE
Good to be back.

OFFICER
We heard you were, sir. What's doing out
there?

LAWRENCE
Where? Oh, Arabia.

OFFICER
Eh, yes, sir.

LAWRENCE
Nothing much. Wrong time of year. What's
doing here?

OFFICER
We're settling in alright, sir.     We've
built a squash court.

LAWRENCE
Jolly good. Well, I have to go up there.
It's borrowed. Someone pinched mine.

OFFICER
Bloody wogs!

LAWRENCE
Yes, probably. Jolly good about the
squash court.

OFFICER
Lays it on a bit thick, doesn't he?

LAWRENCE
Morning.

MP
Oh, morning, sir.

LAWRENCE
Good to be back.

MP
I'll believe you, sir.

LAWRENCE
No, really, it is.       Hello.

BRIGHTON
Morning. You're to go right in.

FEISAL
Aurens, or is it Major Lawrence?

LAWRENCE
Sir.

FEISAL
Ah. Ai. Well, General, I will leave you.
Major Lawrence, doubtless, has reports to
make about my people and their weakness,
and the need to keep them weak in the
British interest...and the French
interest too, of course. We must not
forget the French now...

ALLENBY
I've told you, sir, no such treaty
exists.

FEISAL
Yes, General, you have lied most bravely,
but not convincingly. I know this treaty
does exist.

LAWRENCE
Treaty, sir?

FEISAL
He does it better than you, General, but
then, of course, he is almost an Arab.

DRYDEN
You really don't know?

ALLENBY
Then what the devil's this?

LAWRENCE
It's my request for release from Arabia,
sir.

ALLENBY
For what reason? Are you sure you haven't
heard of the Sykes-Picot Treaty?

LAWRENCE
No. I can guess

ALLENBY
Don't guess! Tell him!

DRYDEN
Well, now. Mr Sykes is and English civil
servant. Monsieur Picot is a French civil
servant. Mr Sykes and Monsieur Picot met
and they agreed that after the war,
France and England would share the
Turkish Empire, including Arabia. They
signed an agreement, not a treaty, sir.
An agreement to that effect.

LAWRENCE
There may be honour among thieves, but
there's none in politicians.

DRYDEN
And let's no have displays of
indignation. You may not have known, but
you certainly had suspicions. If we've
told lies, you've told half-lies and a
man who tells lies, like me, merely hides
the truth, but a man who tells half-lies
has forgotten where he put it.

LAWRENCE
The truth is I'm an ordinary man. You
might have told me that, Dryden, and I
want an ordinary job, sir. That's my
reason for resigning. It's personal.

ALLENBY
Personal?

LAWRENCE
Yes, sir.

ALLENBY
Personal? You're a serving officer in the
field, and as it happens, a damned
important one. Personal? Are you mad?

LAWRENCE
No, and if you don't mind, I'd rather not
go mad. That's my reason, too.

ALLENBY
Look, Lawrence. I'm making my big push on
Damascus the sixteenth of next month and
you are part of it. Can you understand
that? You're an important part of the big
push.

LAWRENCE
I don't want to be part of your big push!

ALLENBY
What about your Arab friends? What about
them?

LAWRENCE
I have no Arab friends! I don't want Arab
friends!

ALLENBY
What in hell do you want, Lawrence?

LAWRENCE
I've told you. I just want my ration of
common humanity.

DRYDEN
Lawrence?

LAWRENCE
Yes?

DRYDEN
Nothing. Sorry I interrupted, sir.

ALLENBY
Oh, that's quite all right, thank you, Mr
Dryden.

DRYDEN
Thank you, sir.

ALLENBY
Look. Why don't we...there's blood on
your back. Do you want a doctor?

LAWRENCE
No.

ALLENBY
Tell me what happened.


BENTLEY
So, what goes on in there?

DRYDEN
Nothing.

BENTLEY
Oh, come on!

DRYDEN
No, really. Nothing at all.

BENTLEY
Is the man in trouble?

DRYDEN
I expect so. We all have troubles. Life's
a vale of troubles.

BENTLEY
Just let me know if the man's in trouble;
I've got an interest in that man; I've
got a claim!

DRYDEN
What claim?

BENTLEY
You've read my stuff. I've made that boy
a hero. When the war's over, that boy can
be anything he wants.

DRYDEN
Yes. Well, at the moment he wants to be
somebody else. Will you kindly allow me
to pass?

BENTLEY
Walk away, Dryden. Walk away. Always
walking away, aren't you?

DRYDEN
Well, I'll tell you. It's a little clash
of temperament that's going on in there,
inevitably. One of them's half-mad, and
the other, wholly unscrupulous.


ALLENBY
I believe your name will be a household
word when you'll have to go to the War
Museum to find who Allenby was. You're
the most extraordinary man I've ever met.

LAWRENCE
Leave me alone!

ALLENBY
What?

LAWRENCE
Leave me alone!

ALLENBY
Well, that's a feeble thing to say.

LAWRENCE
I know I'm not ordinary.

ALLENBY
That's not what I'm saying.

LAWRENCE
All right! I'm extraordinary. What of it?

ALLENBY
Not many people have a destiny, Lawrence.
It's a terrible thing for a man to funk
it if he has.

LAWRENCE
Are you speaking from experience?

ALLENBY
No.

LAWRENCE
You're guessing, then. Suppose you're
wrong.

ALLENBY
Why suppose that? We both know I'm right.

LAWRENCE
Yes...

ALLENBY
...After all...

LAWRENCE
I said, 'Yes'. The sixteenth?

ALLENBY
Can you do it? I'll give you a lot of
money.

LAWRENCE
Artillery?

ALLENBY
I can't.

LAWRENCE
They won't be coming for money; not the
best of them. They's be coming for
Damascus, which I'm going to give them.

ALLENBY
That's all I want.

LAWRENCE
All you want is someone holding down the
Turkish right, but I'm going to give them
Damascus. We'll get there before you do,
and when we've got it, we'll keep it. You
can tell the politicians to burn their
bit of paper, now.

ALLENBY
Fair enough.

LAWRENCE
Fair. What's 'fair' got to do with it?
It's going to happen. I shall want quite
a lot of money.

ALLENBY
All there is.

LAWRENCE
Not that much. The best of them won't
come for money; they'll come for me.


AUDA
No pictures! You take no pictures!

BENTLEY
It's not for you, sheika, it's for Major
Lawrence. He doesn't mind having his
picture taken. He doesn't mind at all.

AUDA
Well, there's only one Aurens.

BENTLEY
Have you met Major Lawrence since he's
come back, sherif?

ALI
Yes.

BENTLEY
Changed, hasn't he?

ALI
No!

BENTLEY
Oh, I'd say he had. Different man, I'd
say. What did that Turkish general do to
him  in Dar'a?

ALI
He was the same man after Dar'a. The same
man. Humbled. What did the English
general do to him in Jerusalem?

BENTLEY
Search me? Ask Aurens.

ALI
I did.

BENTLEY
What did he say?

ALI
He laughed. He told me to gather the
Harif here. He offered me money.

BENTLEY
Did you take it?

ALI
No. But many did.     What is this?

LAWRENCE
This is my bodyguard.

ALI
There's not a man there without a price
on his head.

LAWRENCE
There's a price on my head, too.

ALI
But these are murderers. You know the
sheiks will hang these men.

LAWRENCE
These men are mine.

ALI
Aurens. These things know nothing of the
Arab revolt. You! You son of a leper.

GUARD
Sherif?

ALI
Where do we ride?

GUARD
Damascus, sherif.

ALI
Aye, but for what?

GUARD
Sherif? For Aurens.

ALI
You have bought these things!

LAWRENCE
I bought half the men here, Ali.

ALI
That is different. These are not ordinary
men!

LAWRENCE
I don't want ordinary men!     Damascus!!

AUDAR
Aurens!


ALLENBY
Very well, gentlemen. The cavalry's gone
through Masseriel and Dar'a. Very good,
by the way. very good indeed. Now your
turn.

CHARLEY
Well, sir, if the enemy's retreating in
any kind of order, which we'd better
assume,...

ALLENBY
Certainly.

CHARLEY
...he can't be further than this Malad
place. In which case I can have him
within range by, eh,  o-nine hundred
hours tomorrow.

ALLENBY
Splendid! Philip.

PHILIP
Well, these are the last infantry
supports going up now, sir, but Malad
could have the Fusiliers there by
Wednesday, sir.

ALLENBY
That'll do for now. The guns are what
matter. Any questions?

OFFICER
This Arab army on the right, sir. What
does it consist of?

BRIGHTON
Irregular cavalry, sir. About two
thousand.

OFFICER
Where are they now?

BENTLEY
(We) Can only know that by being with
them, sir.

ALLENBY
Then get with them, Harry. I want to
know.

BRIGHTON
Yes, sir.

ALLENBY
Pound them, Charley! Pound them!


ALI
God help the men who lie under that!

LAWRENCE
They're Turks.

ALI
God help them!


BRIGHTON
Well, he's got the bit between his teeth
alright.

ALLENBY
Cocky?

BRIGHTON
More than cocky, sir. He's got the bit
between his teeth. All right. I tell you,
sir, I think he'll get to Damascus before
we do unless...

ALLENBY
Unless?

BENTLEY
Well, there's a Turkish column in front
of him. Out of Masriel.

ALLENBY
What do the Turks have in Masriel? I
wonder where they are now.



GUARD
No prisoners.

ALI
Damascus, Aurens.     Aurens. Not this.
Go round. Damascus, Aurens! Damascus!

GUARD
No prisoners.

ALI
Aurens?

AUDAR
This was Talal's village.

LAWRENCE
No prisoners! No prisoners!

ALI
God. God! God!!     Aurens! Enough!
Enough! Make them stop!     Aurens!

BENTLEY
Major! Major Lawrence! Jesus wept! Jesus
wept!

ALI
Does it surprise you, Mr Bentley? Surely,
you know the Arabs are a barbarous
people. Barbarous and cruel. Who but
they! Who but they!

BENTLEY
Oh, you rotten man. Here, let me take
your rotten bloody picture for the rotten
bloody newspapers.


BEDOUIN
These were cut last night, Aurens, in
Damascus. Damascus!

LAWRENCE
Take them to Sherif Ali. Tell him. Remind
him. Is Allenby in Damascus?

BEDOUIN
Near.

LAWRENCE
Tell Sherif Ali that.

BEDOUIN
They are not ripe, ha, ha.


SOLDIER
General salute! Present arms! Hold Arms!

BRIGHTON
Lawrence is behind it, sir. Lawrence. The
whole town has passed onto the Arab flag.

ALLENBY
When?

BRIGHTON
A day and a night, sir. They've been here
a day and a night. They've occupied the
town, sir. They've done it. He's set up
his own headquarters in the town hall.

ALLENBY
What else besides the town hall?

BRIGHTON
The telephone exchange, post office,
power house, hospital, fire station,
everything, sir. They call themselves the
Arab National Council and they're in the
town hall.

ALLENBY
Well, they're your pigeon, Harry. What do
you think we should do about it?

BRIGHTON
Well, get them out of it, sir, quick
time.

ALLENBY
How about that, Dryden?

DRYDEN
Not unless you want a full-scale rising
on your hands, sir.

BRIGHTON
Well, what, then?

DRYDEN
When will Prince Feisal be in Damascus?

ALLENBY
By special train in two days' time.

DRYDEN
Two days.

ALLENBY
Two days is what you asked me for. I
can't keep him out any longer. Isn't it
enough?

DRYDEN
Yes, ample. I should think.

BRIGHTON
Look, sir, we can't just do nothing.

ALLENBY
Why not? It's usually best.

ALLENBY
Get us something to drink, Tracy.
Tracy     Yes, sir.

ALLENBY
And Tracy, all troops to remain quartered
until further notice.

TRACY
Yes, sir. Does that apply to technical
units, sir?

ALLENBY
Technical Units particularly.

TRACY
Yes, sir.

BRIGHTON
Medicals, too, sir?

ALLENBY
I'm afraid so, Harry. Medicals too.


LAWRENCE
We, here, are neither Harif, nor Howetat,
nor any other tribe, but Arabs at the
Arab Council, acting for Prince Feisal.

AUDA
He insulted me.

LAWRENCE
Sherif Ali said that the telephones were
in the care of the Howetat, and that the
telephones had ceased to work, and this
is true, Auda.

AUDA
They will not work because they are given
no electricity. The electricity is in the
care of the Harif.

LAWRENCE
If you answer there'll be bloodshed.

ALI
You speak to me of bloodshed? I ask
pardon of Auda Bute.

AUDA
Humbly? Humbly! Harif!

ALI
Yes! Humbly!

AUDA
This is a new trick.

LAWRENCE
Why is there no electricity?

ALI
I have been to that electrical house,
Aurens. There are three large machines.

VOICE FROM THE BALCONY
He means 'generators'!

ALI
So, one of them is burned. They are of an
incredible size, but helpless.

AUDA
It is so of all machines. Let them burn!
What need of telephones?

LAWRENCE
The need is absolute.

ALI
Then, we need the English engineers.

LAWRENCE
No! Take English engineers and you take
English government. Take...

SOLIDER
Fire has broken out.

ALI
Where?

SOLIDER
In the Gensebe district.

ALI
It is not a district that matters.

LAWRENCE
It will spread.

ALI
Then, in God's name, use the fire
brigade!

SOLIDER
We have tried, Aurens, but there is force
in the water.

LAWRENCE
Then, you must carry it.

ALI
The Urala do not carry water.

AUDA
What else are they good for?

LAWRENCE
We will hear petitions this afternoon.
This afternoon!


ALLENBY
I'm going to take this up after the war.

BRIGHTON
Surely, we should do something, sir.

ALLENBY
It's an old man's sport.

DRYDEN
Are you an old man, sir?

ALLENBY
Hmm.

BRIGHTON
Well, all I can say is, sir, it's a heavy
responsibility. Sorry, sir.

ALLENBY
Maybe, it's the bulb.

DRYDEN
No, sir. It's the power. They're leaving,
sir.

ALLENBY
That's it, then. Marvellous-looking
beggars, aren't they?


AUDA
Leave this, Aurens. Come with me!

LAWRENCE
Come where?

AUDA
Back! I know your heart. What is it? Is
it this? I tell you; this is nothing. Is
it the blood? The desert has dried up
more blood than you could think of.

LAWRENCE
I pray that I may never see the desert
again. Hear me, God!

AUDA
You will come. There is only the desert
for you.

LAWRENCE
What about you, Ali?

ALI
No. I shall stay here and learn politics.

LAWRENCE
That's a very low occupation.

ALI
I had no thought of it when I met you.
You tried very hard to give us Damascus.

LAWRENCE
It's what I came for. And that would be
something.

ALI
Yes. Much.

AUDAR
He is your friend?

ALI
Take your hand away!

AUDA
You love him.

ALI
No, I fear him.

AUDAR
Then, why do you weep?

ALI
I fear him who love him? Or must he fear
himself or hate himself. Take your hand
away!  Howitat!

AUDA
Oh, so you are not yet entirely
politician.

ALI
Not yet.

AUDA
Well, these are new tricks and I am an
old dog. And Allah be thanked. I'll tell
thee what, though; being an Arab will be
thornier than you suppose, Harif!


DOCTOR
In all my years as a medical officer I've
never seen anything like it.

ALLENBY
It comes within the jurisdiction of the
Arab Council.

DOCTOR
I'm sorry, sir, under the circumstances I
think I must take over immediately.

ALLENBY
Under any circumstance at all, you must
obey your orders.

DOCTOR
No, sir, I will not.

ALLENBY
Control yourself. Now, go over to the
Town Hall and see what they say.


LAWRENCE
We did what we could in the civic
hospitals.

DOCTOR
But you forgot the Turkish military
hospital.

LAWRENCE
Yes.

DOCTOR
It has six hundred beds. There are about
two thousand Turkish wounded in it. all
of whom are the responsibility of your
precious Arab Council.

LAWRENCE
What's it like?


OFFICER
This is outrageous! Outrageous!
Outrageous!! You filthy little wog!


FEISAL
My friend, Aurens, if I may call him
that. My friend, Aurens. How many men
will claim the right to use that phrase?
How proudly! He longs for the greenness
of his native land; he pines for the
gothic cottages of, eh, Surrey? Is it
not? Already, in imagination he catches
trout and engages in all the activities
of the English gentleman.

ALLENBY
That's me you're describing, sir, not
Colonel Lawrence. You're promoted
Colonel.

LAWRENCE
Yes? What for?

FEISAL
Take the honour, Colonel. Be a little
kind.

ALLENBY
As a Colonel, you'll have a cabin to
yourself on the boat home.

LAWRENCE
Then, thank you.

ALLENBY
Well, then, God speed.

FEISAL
There's nothing further here for a
warrior. We drive bargains. Old men's
work. Young men make wars and the virtues
of war are the virtues of young men;
courage and hope for the future. Then,
old men make the peace. And the vices of
peace are the vices of old men; mistrust
and caution. It must be so. What I owe
you is beyond evaluation. The power-
house, the telephone exchange - these I
concede; the pumping plant I must retain.

ALLENBY
If you retain the pumping-plant, there'll
be no water, sir.

FEISAL
I shall be glad of any technical
assistance.

ALLENBY
In fairness then, you must bring down
your flag.

FEISAL
I shall not bring down my flag, and if
your men attempt it, my men will resist
it.

ALLENBY
Have you any men, sir?

FEISAL
Enough for that. It's the kind of thing
that makes a very ugly incident. I'm sure
you're government does not wish to appear
at the peace conference in the light of
an aggressor.

SOLDIER
I say! It's Lawrence, isn't it? Well, may
I shake you're hand, sir? Just want to be
able to say I'd done it, sir.

LAWRENCE
Haven't we met before?

SOLDIER
Don't think so, sir. Oh, no, sir. I
should have remembered that.


FEISAL
It is widely known the Arab council took
power in my name.

ALLENBY
They have no power, sir. It's illusory.

FEISAL
Illusions can be very powerful;
particularly when they take this form.
The world is delighted at the picture of
Damascus liberated by the Arab army.

ALLENBY
Led, may I remind you, sir, by a British
serving officer.

FEISAL
Ah, yes. But then Aurens is a sword with
two edges. We are equally glad to be rid
of him. Are we not?

ALLENBY
I thought I was a hard man, sir.

FEISAL
You are merely a general. I must be a
king.

BRIGHTON
Excuse me, sir.

ALLENBY
Well?

DRYDEN
Well. It seems we're to have a British
waterworks with an Arab flag on it. Do
you think it was worth it?

ALLENBY
Not my business. Thank God I'm a soldier!

DRYDEN
Yes, sir. So you keep saying.

FEISAL
You, I suspect, are chief architect of
this compromise. What do you think?

DRYDEN
Me? Your Highness? On the whole, I wish
I'd stayed in Tunbridge Wells.


SOLDIER
Well, sir. Going 'ome.

LAWRENCE
Hmm?

SOLDIER
'Ome, sir.





The End3Embed Baby, I Love Your Way The Best of Big Mountain Big Mountain;Tom Lord-Alge reggae